app/content/bankofanthos/deploy-authorization-policies.md, before:

---
title: "Deploy AuthorizationPolicies"
weight: 6
description: "Duration: 5 min | Persona: Apps Operator"
tags: ["apps-operator", "asm", "security-tips"]
---
![Apps Operator](/images/apps-operator.png)
_{{< param description >}}_

In this section, you will deploy granular and specific `ServiceAccounts` and `AuthorizationPolicies` for the Bank of Anthos namespace. At the end that's where you will finally have working Bank of Anthos apps :)

Initialize variables:
```Bash
WORK_DIR=~/
source ${WORK_DIR}acm-workshop-variables.sh
```

## Define `ServiceAccounts`

```Bash
mkdir ${WORK_DIR}$BANK_OF_ANTHOS_DIR_NAME/base/serviceaccounts
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$BANK_OF_ANTHOS_DIR_NAME/base/serviceaccounts/serviceaccount_accounts-db.yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ServiceAccount
metadata:
  name: accounts-db
EOF
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$BANK_OF_ANTHOS_DIR_NAME/base/serviceaccounts/serviceaccount_balancereader.yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ServiceAccount
metadata:
  name: balancereader
EOF
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$BANK_OF_ANTHOS_DIR_NAME/base/serviceaccounts/serviceaccount_contacts.yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ServiceAccount
metadata:
  name: contacts
EOF
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$BANK_OF_ANTHOS_DIR_NAME/base/serviceaccounts/serviceaccount_frontend.yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ServiceAccount
metadata:
  name: frontend
EOF
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$BANK_OF_ANTHOS_DIR_NAME/base/serviceaccounts/serviceaccount_ledger-db.yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ServiceAccount
metadata:
  name: ledger-db
EOF
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$BANK_OF_ANTHOS_DIR_NAME/base/serviceaccounts/serviceaccount_ledgerwriter.yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ServiceAccount
metadata:
  name: ledgerwriter
EOF
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$BANK_OF_ANTHOS_DIR_NAME/base/serviceaccounts/serviceaccount_loadgenerator.yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ServiceAccount
metadata:
  name: loadgenerator
EOF
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$BANK_OF_ANTHOS_DIR_NAME/base/serviceaccounts/serviceaccount_transactionhistory.yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ServiceAccount
metadata:
  name: transactionhistory
EOF
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$BANK_OF_ANTHOS_DIR_NAME/base/serviceaccounts/serviceaccount_userservice.yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ServiceAccount
metadata:
  name: userservice
EOF
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$BANK_OF_ANTHOS_DIR_NAME/base/serviceaccounts/kustomization.yaml
apiVersion: kustomize.config.k8s.io/v1alpha1
kind: Component
resources:
- serviceaccount_accounts-db.yaml
- serviceaccount_balancereader.yaml
- serviceaccount_contacts.yaml
- serviceaccount_frontend.yaml
- serviceaccount_ledger-db.yaml
- serviceaccount_ledgerwriter.yaml
- serviceaccount_loadgenerator.yaml
- serviceaccount_transactionhistory.yaml
- serviceaccount_userservice.yaml
EOF
```

## Update `ServiceAccounts` in `Deployments`

```Bash
cat <<EOF >> ${WORK_DIR}$BANK_OF_ANTHOS_DIR_NAME/base/serviceaccounts/kustomization.yaml
patchesJson6902:
- target:
    kind: StatefulSet
    name: accounts-db
  patch: |-
    - op: replace
      path: /spec/template/spec/serviceAccountName
      value: accounts-db
- target:
    kind: Deployment
    name: balancereader
  patch: |-
    - op: replace
      path: /spec/template/spec/serviceAccountName
      value: balancereader
- target:
    kind: Deployment
    name: contacts
  patch: |-
    - op: replace
      path: /spec/template/spec/serviceAccountName
      value: contacts
- target:
    kind: Deployment
    name: frontend
  patch: |-
    - op: replace
      path: /spec/template/spec/serviceAccountName
      value: frontend
- target:
    kind: StatefulSet
    name: ledger-db
  patch: |-
    - op: replace
      path: /spec/template/spec/serviceAccountName
      value: ledger-db
- target:
    kind: Deployment
    name: ledgerwriter
  patch: |-
    - op: replace
      path: /spec/template/spec/serviceAccountName
      value: ledgerwriter
- target:
    kind: Deployment
    name: loadgenerator
  patch: |-
    - op: replace
      path: /spec/template/spec/serviceAccountName
      value: loadgenerator
- target:
    kind: Deployment
    name: transactionhistory
  patch: |-
    - op: replace
      path: /spec/template/spec/serviceAccountName
      value: transactionhistory
- target:
    kind: Deployment
    name: userservice
  patch: |-
    - op: replace
      path: /spec/template/spec/serviceAccountName
      value: userservice
EOF
```

## Define `AuthorizationPolicies`

```Bash
mkdir ${WORK_DIR}$BANK_OF_ANTHOS_DIR_NAME/base/authorizationpolicies
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$BANK_OF_ANTHOS_DIR_NAME/base/authorizationpolicies/authorizationpolicy_accounts-db.yaml
apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1
kind: AuthorizationPolicy
metadata:
  name: accounts-db
spec:
  rules:
  - from:
    - source:
        principals:
        - cluster.local/ns/${BANKOFANTHOS_NAMESPACE}/sa/contacts
        - cluster.local/ns/${BANKOFANTHOS_NAMESPACE}/sa/userservice
    to:
    - operation:
        ports:
        - "5432"
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: accounts-db
EOF
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$BANK_OF_ANTHOS_DIR_NAME/base/authorizationpolicies/authorizationpolicy_balancereader.yaml
apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1
kind: AuthorizationPolicy
metadata:
  name: balancereader
spec:
  rules:
  - from:
    - source:
        principals:
        - cluster.local/ns/${BANKOFANTHOS_NAMESPACE}/sa/frontend
        - cluster.local/ns/${BANKOFANTHOS_NAMESPACE}/sa/ledgerwriter
    to:
    - operation:
        methods:
        - GET
        paths:
        - /balances/*
        ports:
        - "8080"
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: balancereader
EOF
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$BANK_OF_ANTHOS_DIR_NAME/base/authorizationpolicies/authorizationpolicy_contacts.yaml
apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1
kind: AuthorizationPolicy
metadata:
  name: contacts
spec:
  rules:
  - from:
    - source:
        principals:
        - cluster.local/ns/${BANKOFANTHOS_NAMESPACE}/sa/frontend
    to:
    - operation:
        methods:
        - GET
        - POST
        paths:
        - /contacts/*
        ports:
        - "8080"
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: contacts
EOF
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$BANK_OF_ANTHOS_DIR_NAME/base/authorizationpolicies/authorizationpolicy_frontend.yaml
apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1
kind: AuthorizationPolicy
metadata:
  name: frontend
spec:
  rules:
  - from:
    - source:
        principals:
        - cluster.local/ns/${BANKOFANTHOS_NAMESPACE}/sa/loadgenerator
        - cluster.local/ns/${INGRESS_GATEWAY_NAMESPACE}/sa/${INGRESS_GATEWAY_NAME}
    to:
    - operation:
        methods:
        - GET
        - POST
        ports:
        - "8080"
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: frontend
EOF
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$BANK_OF_ANTHOS_DIR_NAME/base/authorizationpolicies/authorizationpolicy_ledger-db.yaml
apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1
kind: AuthorizationPolicy
metadata:
  name: ledger-db
spec:
  rules:
  - from:
    - source:
        principals:
        - cluster.local/ns/${BANKOFANTHOS_NAMESPACE}/sa/balancereader
        - cluster.local/ns/${BANKOFANTHOS_NAMESPACE}/sa/transactionhistory
        - cluster.local/ns/${BANKOFANTHOS_NAMESPACE}/sa/ledgerwriter
    to:
    - operation:
        ports:
        - "5432"
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: ledger-db
EOF
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$BANK_OF_ANTHOS_DIR_NAME/base/authorizationpolicies/authorizationpolicy_ledgerwriter.yaml
apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1
kind: AuthorizationPolicy
metadata:
  name: ledgerwriter
spec:
  rules:
  - from:
    - source:
        principals:
        - cluster.local/ns/${BANKOFANTHOS_NAMESPACE}/sa/frontend
    to:
    - operation:
        methods:
        - POST
        paths:
        - /transactions
        - /transactions/*
        ports:
        - "8080"
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: ledgerwriter
EOF
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$BANK_OF_ANTHOS_DIR_NAME/base/authorizationpolicies/authorizationpolicy_transactionhistory.yaml
apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1
kind: AuthorizationPolicy
metadata:
  name: transactionhistory
spec:
  rules:
  - from:
    - source:
        principals:
        - cluster.local/ns/${BANKOFANTHOS_NAMESPACE}/sa/frontend
    to:
    - operation:
        methods:
        - GET
        paths:
        - /transactions/*
        ports:
        - "8080"
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: transactionhistory
EOF
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$BANK_OF_ANTHOS_DIR_NAME/base/authorizationpolicies/authorizationpolicy_userservice.yaml
apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1
kind: AuthorizationPolicy
metadata:
  name: userservice
spec:
  rules:
  - from:
    - source:
        principals:
        - cluster.local/ns/${BANKOFANTHOS_NAMESPACE}/sa/frontend
    to:
    - operation:
        methods:
        - GET
        - POST
        paths:
        - /users
        - /login
        ports:
        - "8080"
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: userservice
EOF
cd ${WORK_DIR}$BANK_OF_ANTHOS_DIR_NAME/base/authorizationpolicies
kustomize create --autodetect
```

## Update the Kustomize base overlay

```Bash
cd ${WORK_DIR}$BANK_OF_ANTHOS_DIR_NAME/base
kustomize edit add component serviceaccounts
kustomize edit add resource authorizationpolicies
```

## Deploy Kubernetes manifests

```Bash
cd ${WORK_DIR}$BANK_OF_ANTHOS_DIR_NAME/
git add . && git commit -m "Bank of Anthos AuthorizationPolicies" && git push origin main
```

## Check deployments

List the Kubernetes resources managed by Config Sync in **GKE cluster** for the **Bank of Anthos apps** repository:
{{< tabs groupId="cs-status-ui">}}
{{% tab name="gcloud" %}}
```Bash
gcloud alpha anthos config sync repo describe \
    --project $TENANT_PROJECT_ID \
    --managed-resources all \
    --sync-name repo-sync \
    --sync-namespace $BANKOFANTHOS_NAMESPACE
```
Wait and re-run this command above until you see `"status": "SYNCED"`.
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="UI" %}}
Alternatively, you could also see this from within the Cloud Console, by clicking on this link:
```Bash
echo -e "https://console.cloud.google.com/kubernetes/config_management/status?clusterName=${GKE_NAME}&id=${GKE_NAME}&project=${TENANT_PROJECT_ID}"
```
Wait until you see the `Sync status` column as `SYNCED`. And then you can also click on `View resources` to see the details.
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

List the GitHub runs for the **Bank of Anthos apps** repository:
```Bash
cd ${WORK_DIR}$BANK_OF_ANTHOS_DIR_NAME && gh run list
```

## Check the Bank of Anthos apps

Open the list of the **Workloads** deployed in the GKE cluster, by clicking on the link displayed by the command below:
```Bash
echo -e "https://console.cloud.google.com/kubernetes/workload/overview?project=${TENANT_PROJECT_ID}"
```

There you will see on all the workloads this error message: `Pods have warnings`. We will fix these errors in the next section.

Navigate to the Bank of Anthos apps, click on the link displayed by the command below:
```Bash
echo -e "https://${BANK_OF_ANTHOS_INGRESS_GATEWAY_HOST_NAME}"
```

You should now see the Bank of Anthos home page working. But if you try to login, you will get an error. This is because all the workloads are not yet successfully deployed. In the next section you will apply a fine granular `Sidecars` for the Bank of Anthos apps in order to fix this.

Commit message:

Fix flow with Bank of Anthos section

app/content/bankofanthos/deploy-authorization-policies.md, after:

---
title: "Deploy AuthorizationPolicies"
weight: 5
description: "Duration: 5 min | Persona: Apps Operator"
tags: ["apps-operator", "asm", "security-tips"]
---
![Apps Operator](/images/apps-operator.png)
_{{< param description >}}_

In this section, you will see how to track the `AuthorizationPolicies` issue and then you will deploy granular and specific `ServiceAccounts` and `AuthorizationPolicies` for the Bank of Anthos namespace to fix this issue.

Initialize variables:
```Bash
WORK_DIR=~/
source ${WORK_DIR}acm-workshop-variables.sh
```

## See the `AuthorizationPolicies` issue

See the `AuthorizationPolicies` issue in the **GKE cluster** for the Bank of Anthos namespace, by running this command and click on this link:
```Bash
echo -e "https://console.cloud.google.com/anthos/security/workload-view/Deployment/${GKE_LOCATION}/${GKE_NAME}/${BANKOFANTHOS_NAMESPACE}/frontend?project=${TENANT_PROJECT_ID}"
```

Under the **Service requests** section on this page, you will see some **Inbound denials**. If you click on **View logs** you will be able to see via Cloud Logging the details of the errors. That's where you will the logs with `status: 403` and `response_details: "AuthzDenied"`.

Let's fix it!

## Define `ServiceAccounts`

```Bash
mkdir ${WORK_DIR}$BANK_OF_ANTHOS_DIR_NAME/base/serviceaccounts
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$BANK_OF_ANTHOS_DIR_NAME/base/serviceaccounts/serviceaccount_accounts-db.yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ServiceAccount
metadata:
  name: accounts-db
EOF
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$BANK_OF_ANTHOS_DIR_NAME/base/serviceaccounts/serviceaccount_balancereader.yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ServiceAccount
metadata:
  name: balancereader
EOF
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$BANK_OF_ANTHOS_DIR_NAME/base/serviceaccounts/serviceaccount_contacts.yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ServiceAccount
metadata:
  name: contacts
EOF
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$BANK_OF_ANTHOS_DIR_NAME/base/serviceaccounts/serviceaccount_frontend.yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ServiceAccount
metadata:
  name: frontend
EOF
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$BANK_OF_ANTHOS_DIR_NAME/base/serviceaccounts/serviceaccount_ledger-db.yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ServiceAccount
metadata:
  name: ledger-db
EOF
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$BANK_OF_ANTHOS_DIR_NAME/base/serviceaccounts/serviceaccount_ledgerwriter.yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ServiceAccount
metadata:
  name: ledgerwriter
EOF
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$BANK_OF_ANTHOS_DIR_NAME/base/serviceaccounts/serviceaccount_loadgenerator.yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ServiceAccount
metadata:
  name: loadgenerator
EOF
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$BANK_OF_ANTHOS_DIR_NAME/base/serviceaccounts/serviceaccount_transactionhistory.yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ServiceAccount
metadata:
  name: transactionhistory
EOF
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$BANK_OF_ANTHOS_DIR_NAME/base/serviceaccounts/serviceaccount_userservice.yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ServiceAccount
metadata:
  name: userservice
EOF
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$BANK_OF_ANTHOS_DIR_NAME/base/serviceaccounts/kustomization.yaml
apiVersion: kustomize.config.k8s.io/v1alpha1
kind: Component
resources:
- serviceaccount_accounts-db.yaml
- serviceaccount_balancereader.yaml
- serviceaccount_contacts.yaml
- serviceaccount_frontend.yaml
- serviceaccount_ledger-db.yaml
- serviceaccount_ledgerwriter.yaml
- serviceaccount_loadgenerator.yaml
- serviceaccount_transactionhistory.yaml
- serviceaccount_userservice.yaml
EOF
```

## Update `ServiceAccounts` in `Deployments`

```Bash
cat <<EOF >> ${WORK_DIR}$BANK_OF_ANTHOS_DIR_NAME/base/serviceaccounts/kustomization.yaml
patchesJson6902:
- target:
    kind: StatefulSet
    name: accounts-db
  patch: |-
    - op: replace
      path: /spec/template/spec/serviceAccountName
      value: accounts-db
- target:
    kind: Deployment
    name: balancereader
  patch: |-
    - op: replace
      path: /spec/template/spec/serviceAccountName
      value: balancereader
- target:
    kind: Deployment
    name: contacts
  patch: |-
    - op: replace
      path: /spec/template/spec/serviceAccountName
      value: contacts
- target:
    kind: Deployment
    name: frontend
  patch: |-
    - op: replace
      path: /spec/template/spec/serviceAccountName
      value: frontend
- target:
    kind: StatefulSet
    name: ledger-db
  patch: |-
    - op: replace
      path: /spec/template/spec/serviceAccountName
      value: ledger-db
- target:
    kind: Deployment
    name: ledgerwriter
  patch: |-
    - op: replace
      path: /spec/template/spec/serviceAccountName
      value: ledgerwriter
- target:
    kind: Deployment
    name: loadgenerator
  patch: |-
    - op: replace
      path: /spec/template/spec/serviceAccountName
      value: loadgenerator
- target:
    kind: Deployment
    name: transactionhistory
  patch: |-
    - op: replace
      path: /spec/template/spec/serviceAccountName
      value: transactionhistory
- target:
    kind: Deployment
    name: userservice
  patch: |-
    - op: replace
      path: /spec/template/spec/serviceAccountName
      value: userservice
EOF
```

## Define `AuthorizationPolicies`

```Bash
mkdir ${WORK_DIR}$BANK_OF_ANTHOS_DIR_NAME/base/authorizationpolicies
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$BANK_OF_ANTHOS_DIR_NAME/base/authorizationpolicies/authorizationpolicy_accounts-db.yaml
apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1
kind: AuthorizationPolicy
metadata:
  name: accounts-db
spec:
  rules:
  - from:
    - source:
        principals:
        - cluster.local/ns/${BANKOFANTHOS_NAMESPACE}/sa/contacts
        - cluster.local/ns/${BANKOFANTHOS_NAMESPACE}/sa/userservice
    to:
    - operation:
        ports:
        - "5432"
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: accounts-db
EOF
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$BANK_OF_ANTHOS_DIR_NAME/base/authorizationpolicies/authorizationpolicy_balancereader.yaml
apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1
kind: AuthorizationPolicy
metadata:
  name: balancereader
spec:
  rules:
  - from:
    - source:
        principals:
        - cluster.local/ns/${BANKOFANTHOS_NAMESPACE}/sa/frontend
        - cluster.local/ns/${BANKOFANTHOS_NAMESPACE}/sa/ledgerwriter
    to:
    - operation:
        methods:
        - GET
        paths:
        - /balances/*
        ports:
        - "8080"
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: balancereader
EOF
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$BANK_OF_ANTHOS_DIR_NAME/base/authorizationpolicies/authorizationpolicy_contacts.yaml
apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1
kind: AuthorizationPolicy
metadata:
  name: contacts
spec:
  rules:
  - from:
    - source:
        principals:
        - cluster.local/ns/${BANKOFANTHOS_NAMESPACE}/sa/frontend
    to:
    - operation:
        methods:
        - GET
        - POST
        paths:
        - /contacts/*
        ports:
        - "8080"
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: contacts
EOF
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$BANK_OF_ANTHOS_DIR_NAME/base/authorizationpolicies/authorizationpolicy_frontend.yaml
apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1
kind: AuthorizationPolicy
metadata:
  name: frontend
spec:
  rules:
  - from:
    - source:
        principals:
        - cluster.local/ns/${BANKOFANTHOS_NAMESPACE}/sa/loadgenerator
        - cluster.local/ns/${INGRESS_GATEWAY_NAMESPACE}/sa/${INGRESS_GATEWAY_NAME}
    to:
    - operation:
        methods:
        - GET
        - POST
        ports:
        - "8080"
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: frontend
EOF
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$BANK_OF_ANTHOS_DIR_NAME/base/authorizationpolicies/authorizationpolicy_ledger-db.yaml
apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1
kind: AuthorizationPolicy
metadata:
  name: ledger-db
spec:
  rules:
  - from:
    - source:
        principals:
        - cluster.local/ns/${BANKOFANTHOS_NAMESPACE}/sa/balancereader
        - cluster.local/ns/${BANKOFANTHOS_NAMESPACE}/sa/transactionhistory
        - cluster.local/ns/${BANKOFANTHOS_NAMESPACE}/sa/ledgerwriter
    to:
    - operation:
        ports:
        - "5432"
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: ledger-db
EOF
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$BANK_OF_ANTHOS_DIR_NAME/base/authorizationpolicies/authorizationpolicy_ledgerwriter.yaml
apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1
kind: AuthorizationPolicy
metadata:
  name: ledgerwriter
spec:
  rules:
  - from:
    - source:
        principals:
        - cluster.local/ns/${BANKOFANTHOS_NAMESPACE}/sa/frontend
    to:
    - operation:
        methods:
        - POST
        paths:
        - /transactions
        - /transactions/*
        ports:
        - "8080"
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: ledgerwriter
EOF
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$BANK_OF_ANTHOS_DIR_NAME/base/authorizationpolicies/authorizationpolicy_transactionhistory.yaml
apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1
kind: AuthorizationPolicy
metadata:
  name: transactionhistory
spec:
  rules:
  - from:
    - source:
        principals:
        - cluster.local/ns/${BANKOFANTHOS_NAMESPACE}/sa/frontend
    to:
    - operation:
        methods:
        - GET
        paths:
        - /transactions/*
        ports:
        - "8080"
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: transactionhistory
EOF
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$BANK_OF_ANTHOS_DIR_NAME/base/authorizationpolicies/authorizationpolicy_userservice.yaml
apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1
kind: AuthorizationPolicy
metadata:
  name: userservice
spec:
  rules:
  - from:
    - source:
        principals:
        - cluster.local/ns/${BANKOFANTHOS_NAMESPACE}/sa/frontend
    to:
    - operation:
        methods:
        - GET
        - POST
        paths:
        - /users
        - /login
        ports:
        - "8080"
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: userservice
EOF
cd ${WORK_DIR}$BANK_OF_ANTHOS_DIR_NAME/base/authorizationpolicies
kustomize create --autodetect
```

## Update the Kustomize base overlay

```Bash
cd ${WORK_DIR}$BANK_OF_ANTHOS_DIR_NAME/base
kustomize edit add component serviceaccounts
kustomize edit add resource authorizationpolicies
```

## Deploy Kubernetes manifests

```Bash
cd ${WORK_DIR}$BANK_OF_ANTHOS_DIR_NAME/
git add . && git commit -m "Bank of Anthos AuthorizationPolicies" && git push origin main
```

## Check deployments

List the Kubernetes resources managed by Config Sync in **GKE cluster** for the **Bank of Anthos apps** repository:
{{< tabs groupId="cs-status-ui">}}
{{% tab name="UI" %}}
Run this command and click on this link:
```Bash
echo -e "https://console.cloud.google.com/kubernetes/config_management/packages?project=${TENANT_PROJECT_ID}"
```
Wait until you see the `Sync status` column as `Synced` and the `Reconcile status` column as `Current`.
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="gcloud" %}}
Run this command:
```Bash
gcloud alpha anthos config sync repo describe \
    --project $TENANT_PROJECT_ID \
    --managed-resources all \
    --sync-name repo-sync \
    --sync-namespace $BANKOFANTHOS_NAMESPACE
```
Wait and re-run this command above until you see `"status": "SYNCED"`.
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

List the GitHub runs for the **Bank of Anthos apps** repository:
```Bash
cd ${WORK_DIR}$BANK_OF_ANTHOS_DIR_NAME && gh run list
```

## Check the Bank of Anthos website

Navigate to the Bank of Anthos website, click on the link displayed by the command below:
```Bash
echo -e "https://${BANK_OF_ANTHOS_INGRESS_GATEWAY_HOST_NAME}"
```

You should now have the Bank of Anthos website working successfully. Congrats!
