content/artifact-registry/allow-artifact-registry.md, before:

---
title: "Allow Artifact Registry"
weight: 1
description: "Duration: 5 min | Persona: Org Admin"
tags: ["kcc", "org-admin", "security-tips"]
---
![Org Admin](/images/org-admin.png)
_{{< param description >}}_

In this section, you will enable and grant the appropriate APIs in the Tenant project and the IAM role for the Tenant project's service account. This will allow later this service account to provision the Artifact Registry to have your private container images. You will also the [containers analysis and scanning features](https://cloud.google.com/container-analysis/docs/automated-scanning-howto) of Artifact Registry.

Initialize variables:
```Bash
WORK_DIR=~/
source ${WORK_DIR}acm-workshop-variables.sh
```

## Define role

Define the `artifactregistry.admin` role with an [`IAMPolicyMember`](https://cloud.google.com/config-connector/docs/reference/resource-docs/iam/iampolicymember) for the Tenant project's service account:
```Bash
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$HOST_PROJECT_DIR_NAME/projects/$TENANT_PROJECT_ID/artifactregistry-admin.yaml
apiVersion: iam.cnrm.cloud.google.com/v1beta1
kind: IAMPolicyMember
metadata:
  name: artifactregistry-admin-${TENANT_PROJECT_ID}
  namespace: config-control
  annotations:
    config.kubernetes.io/depends-on: iam.cnrm.cloud.google.com/namespaces/config-control/IAMServiceAccount/${TENANT_PROJECT_ID},resourcemanager.cnrm.cloud.google.com/namespaces/config-control/Project/${TENANT_PROJECT_ID}
spec:
  memberFrom:
    serviceAccountRef:
      name: ${TENANT_PROJECT_ID}
  role: roles/artifactregistry.admin
  resourceRef:
    kind: Project
    external: projects/${TENANT_PROJECT_ID}
EOF
```

## Define APIs

Define the Artifact Registry API [`Service`](https://cloud.google.com/config-connector/docs/reference/resource-docs/serviceusage/service) resource for the Tenant project:
```Bash
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$HOST_PROJECT_DIR_NAME/projects/$TENANT_PROJECT_ID/artifactregistry-service.yaml
apiVersion: serviceusage.cnrm.cloud.google.com/v1beta1
kind: Service
metadata:
  annotations:
    cnrm.cloud.google.com/deletion-policy: "abandon"
    cnrm.cloud.google.com/disable-dependent-services: "false"
    config.kubernetes.io/depends-on: resourcemanager.cnrm.cloud.google.com/namespaces/config-control/Project/${TENANT_PROJECT_ID}
  name: ${TENANT_PROJECT_ID}-artifactregistry
  namespace: config-control
spec:
  projectRef:
    name: ${TENANT_PROJECT_ID}
  resourceID: artifactregistry.googleapis.com
EOF
```
{{% notice info %}}
We are enabling the GCP services APIs from the Org Admin, it allows more control and governance over which GCP services APIs the Platform Admin could use or not. If you want to give more autonomy to the Platform Admin, you could grant the `serviceusage.serviceUsageAdmin` role to the associated service account.
{{% /notice %}}

Define the [Container Scanning](https://cloud.google.com/container-analysis/docs/automated-scanning-howto) APIs [`Service`](https://cloud.google.com/config-connector/docs/reference/resource-docs/serviceusage/service) resource for the Tenant project:
```Bash
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$HOST_PROJECT_DIR_NAME/projects/$TENANT_PROJECT_ID/containeranalysis-service.yaml
apiVersion: serviceusage.cnrm.cloud.google.com/v1beta1
kind: Service
metadata:
  annotations:
    cnrm.cloud.google.com/deletion-policy: "abandon"
    cnrm.cloud.google.com/disable-dependent-services: "false"
    config.kubernetes.io/depends-on: resourcemanager.cnrm.cloud.google.com/namespaces/config-control/Project/${TENANT_PROJECT_ID}
  name: ${TENANT_PROJECT_ID}-containeranalysis
  namespace: config-control
spec:
  projectRef:
    name: ${TENANT_PROJECT_ID}
  resourceID: containeranalysis.googleapis.com
EOF
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$HOST_PROJECT_DIR_NAME/projects/$TENANT_PROJECT_ID/containerscanning-service.yaml
apiVersion: serviceusage.cnrm.cloud.google.com/v1beta1
kind: Service
metadata:
  annotations:
    cnrm.cloud.google.com/deletion-policy: "abandon"
    cnrm.cloud.google.com/disable-dependent-services: "false"
    config.kubernetes.io/depends-on: resourcemanager.cnrm.cloud.google.com/namespaces/config-control/Project/${TENANT_PROJECT_ID}
  name: ${TENANT_PROJECT_ID}-containerscanning
  namespace: config-control
spec:
  projectRef:
    name: ${TENANT_PROJECT_ID}
  resourceID: containerscanning.googleapis.com
EOF
```

## Deploy Kubernetes manifests

```Bash
cd ${WORK_DIR}$HOST_PROJECT_DIR_NAME/
git add . && git commit -m "Allow Artifact Registry for Tenant project" && git push origin main
```

## Check deployments

{{< mermaid >}}
graph TD;
  IAMServiceAccount-->Project
  IAMPartialPolicy-->IAMServiceAccount
  ConfigConnectorContext-->IAMServiceAccount
  IAMPolicyMember-->IAMServiceAccount
  IAMPolicyMember-->Project
  IAMPolicyMember-->IAMServiceAccount
  IAMPolicyMember-->Project
  IAMPolicyMember-->IAMServiceAccount
  IAMPolicyMember-->Project
  IAMPolicyMember-->IAMServiceAccount
  IAMPolicyMember-->Project
  IAMPolicyMember-->IAMServiceAccount
  IAMPolicyMember-->Project
  Service-->Project
  IAMPolicyMember-->IAMServiceAccount
  IAMPolicyMember-->Project
  Service-->Project
  Service-->Project
  IAMPolicyMember-->IAMServiceAccount
  IAMPolicyMember-->Project
  Service-->Project
  Service-->Project
  Service-->Project
{{< /mermaid >}}

List the Kubernetes resources managed by Config Sync in **Config Controller** for the **Host project configs** repository:
```Bash
gcloud alpha anthos config sync repo describe \
    --project $HOST_PROJECT_ID \
    --managed-resources all \
    --sync-name root-sync \
    --sync-namespace config-management-system
```
Wait and re-run this command above until you see `"status": "SYNCED"` for this `RootSync`. All the `managed_resources` listed should have `STATUS: Current` as well.

List the GitHub runs for the **Host project configs** repository:
```Bash
cd ${WORK_DIR}$HOST_PROJECT_DIR_NAME && gh run list
```

List the Google Cloud resources created:
```Bash
gcloud services list \
    --enabled \
    --project ${TENANT_PROJECT_ID} \
    | grep -E 'containerscanning|containeranalysis|artifactregistry'
gcloud projects get-iam-policy $TENANT_PROJECT_ID \
    --filter="bindings.members:${TENANT_PROJECT_SA_EMAIL}" \
    --flatten="bindings[].members" \
    --format="table(bindings.role)" \
    | grep artifactregistry
```
Wait and re-run this command above until you see the resources created.

Commit message:

Fix private artifact registry fro whereami

content/artifact-registry/allow-artifact-registry.md, after:

---
title: "Allow Artifact Registry"
weight: 1
description: "Duration: 5 min | Persona: Org Admin"
tags: ["kcc", "org-admin", "security-tips"]
---
![Org Admin](/images/org-admin.png)
_{{< param description >}}_

In this section, you will enable and grant the appropriate APIs in the Tenant project and the IAM role for the Tenant project's service account. This will allow later this service account to provision the Artifact Registry to have your private container images. You will also the [containers analysis and scanning features](https://cloud.google.com/container-analysis/docs/automated-scanning-howto) of Artifact Registry.

Initialize variables:
```Bash
WORK_DIR=~/
source ${WORK_DIR}acm-workshop-variables.sh
```

## Define role

Define the `artifactregistry.admin` role with an [`IAMPolicyMember`](https://cloud.google.com/config-connector/docs/reference/resource-docs/iam/iampolicymember) for the Tenant project's service account:
```Bash
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$HOST_PROJECT_DIR_NAME/projects/$TENANT_PROJECT_ID/artifactregistry-admin.yaml
apiVersion: iam.cnrm.cloud.google.com/v1beta1
kind: IAMPolicyMember
metadata:
  name: artifactregistry-admin-${TENANT_PROJECT_ID}
  namespace: config-control
  annotations:
    config.kubernetes.io/depends-on: iam.cnrm.cloud.google.com/namespaces/config-control/IAMServiceAccount/${TENANT_PROJECT_ID},resourcemanager.cnrm.cloud.google.com/namespaces/config-control/Project/${TENANT_PROJECT_ID}
spec:
  memberFrom:
    serviceAccountRef:
      name: ${TENANT_PROJECT_ID}
  role: roles/artifactregistry.admin
  resourceRef:
    kind: Project
    external: projects/${TENANT_PROJECT_ID}
EOF
```

## Define APIs

Define the Artifact Registry API [`Service`](https://cloud.google.com/config-connector/docs/reference/resource-docs/serviceusage/service) resource for the Tenant project:
```Bash
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$HOST_PROJECT_DIR_NAME/projects/$TENANT_PROJECT_ID/artifactregistry-service.yaml
apiVersion: serviceusage.cnrm.cloud.google.com/v1beta1
kind: Service
metadata:
  annotations:
    cnrm.cloud.google.com/deletion-policy: "abandon"
    cnrm.cloud.google.com/disable-dependent-services: "false"
    config.kubernetes.io/depends-on: resourcemanager.cnrm.cloud.google.com/namespaces/config-control/Project/${TENANT_PROJECT_ID}
  name: ${TENANT_PROJECT_ID}-artifactregistry
  namespace: config-control
spec:
  projectRef:
    name: ${TENANT_PROJECT_ID}
  resourceID: artifactregistry.googleapis.com
EOF
```
{{% notice info %}}
We are enabling the GCP services APIs from the Org Admin, it allows more control and governance over which GCP services APIs the Platform Admin could use or not. If you want to give more autonomy to the Platform Admin, you could grant the `serviceusage.serviceUsageAdmin` role to the associated service account.
{{% /notice %}}

Define the [Container scanning](https://cloud.google.com/container-analysis/docs/automated-scanning-howto) APIs [`Service`](https://cloud.google.com/config-connector/docs/reference/resource-docs/serviceusage/service) resource for the Tenant project:
```Bash
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$HOST_PROJECT_DIR_NAME/projects/$TENANT_PROJECT_ID/containeranalysis-service.yaml
apiVersion: serviceusage.cnrm.cloud.google.com/v1beta1
kind: Service
metadata:
  annotations:
    cnrm.cloud.google.com/deletion-policy: "abandon"
    cnrm.cloud.google.com/disable-dependent-services: "false"
    config.kubernetes.io/depends-on: resourcemanager.cnrm.cloud.google.com/namespaces/config-control/Project/${TENANT_PROJECT_ID}
  name: ${TENANT_PROJECT_ID}-containeranalysis
  namespace: config-control
spec:
  projectRef:
    name: ${TENANT_PROJECT_ID}
  resourceID: containeranalysis.googleapis.com
EOF
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$HOST_PROJECT_DIR_NAME/projects/$TENANT_PROJECT_ID/containerscanning-service.yaml
apiVersion: serviceusage.cnrm.cloud.google.com/v1beta1
kind: Service
metadata:
  annotations:
    cnrm.cloud.google.com/deletion-policy: "abandon"
    cnrm.cloud.google.com/disable-dependent-services: "false"
    config.kubernetes.io/depends-on: resourcemanager.cnrm.cloud.google.com/namespaces/config-control/Project/${TENANT_PROJECT_ID}
  name: ${TENANT_PROJECT_ID}-containerscanning
  namespace: config-control
spec:
  projectRef:
    name: ${TENANT_PROJECT_ID}
  resourceID: containerscanning.googleapis.com
EOF
```
{{% notice info %}}
Container Analysis performs vulnerability scans on container images in Artifact Registry and Container Registry, and it monitors the vulnerability information to keep it up to date. This process comprises two main tasks: scanning and continuous analysis.
{{% /notice %}}

Define the [On-demand scanning](https://cloud.google.com/container-analysis/docs/automated-scanning-howto) APIs [`Service`](https://cloud.google.com/config-connector/docs/reference/resource-docs/serviceusage/service) resource for the Tenant project:
```Bash
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$HOST_PROJECT_DIR_NAME/projects/$TENANT_PROJECT_ID/ondemandscanning-service.yaml
apiVersion: serviceusage.cnrm.cloud.google.com/v1beta1
kind: Service
metadata:
  annotations:
    cnrm.cloud.google.com/deletion-policy: "abandon"
    cnrm.cloud.google.com/disable-dependent-services: "false"
    config.kubernetes.io/depends-on: resourcemanager.cnrm.cloud.google.com/namespaces/config-control/Project/${TENANT_PROJECT_ID}
  name: ${TENANT_PROJECT_ID}-ondemandscanning
  namespace: config-control
spec:
  projectRef:
    name: ${TENANT_PROJECT_ID}
  resourceID: ondemandscanning.googleapis.com
EOF
```
{{% notice info %}}
On-demand scanning lets you scan container images locally on your computer or in your registry, using the gcloud CLI. This gives you the flexibility to customize your CI/CD pipeline, depending on when you need to access the vulnerability results. In this workshop, you will try out this feature with its associated `gcloud` command.
{{% /notice %}}

## Deploy Kubernetes manifests

```Bash
cd ${WORK_DIR}$HOST_PROJECT_DIR_NAME/
git add . && git commit -m "Allow Artifact Registry for Tenant project" && git push origin main
```

## Check deployments

{{< mermaid >}}
graph TD;
  IAMServiceAccount-->Project
  IAMPartialPolicy-->IAMServiceAccount
  ConfigConnectorContext-->IAMServiceAccount
  IAMPolicyMember-->IAMServiceAccount
  IAMPolicyMember-->Project
  IAMPolicyMember-->IAMServiceAccount
  IAMPolicyMember-->Project
  IAMPolicyMember-->IAMServiceAccount
  IAMPolicyMember-->Project
  IAMPolicyMember-->IAMServiceAccount
  IAMPolicyMember-->Project
  IAMPolicyMember-->IAMServiceAccount
  IAMPolicyMember-->Project
  Service-->Project
  IAMPolicyMember-->IAMServiceAccount
  IAMPolicyMember-->Project
  Service-->Project
  Service-->Project
  IAMPolicyMember-->IAMServiceAccount
  IAMPolicyMember-->Project
  Service-->Project
  Service-->Project
  Service-->Project
{{< /mermaid >}}

List the Kubernetes resources managed by Config Sync in **Config Controller** for the **Host project configs** repository:
```Bash
gcloud alpha anthos config sync repo describe \
    --project $HOST_PROJECT_ID \
    --managed-resources all \
    --sync-name root-sync \
    --sync-namespace config-management-system
```
Wait and re-run this command above until you see `"status": "SYNCED"` for this `RootSync`. All the `managed_resources` listed should have `STATUS: Current` as well.

List the GitHub runs for the **Host project configs** repository:
```Bash
cd ${WORK_DIR}$HOST_PROJECT_DIR_NAME && gh run list
```

List the Google Cloud resources created:
```Bash
gcloud services list \
    --enabled \
    --project ${TENANT_PROJECT_ID} \
    | grep -E 'containerscanning|containeranalysis|artifactregistry|ondemandscanning'
gcloud projects get-iam-policy $TENANT_PROJECT_ID \
    --filter="bindings.members:${TENANT_PROJECT_SA_EMAIL}" \
    --flatten="bindings[].members" \
    --format="table(bindings.role)" \
    | grep artifactregistry
```
Wait and re-run this command above until you see the resources created.
