content/host-project/create-host-project.md, before:

---
title: "Create Host project"
weight: 1
description: "Duration: 5 min | Persona: Org Admin"
tags: ["org-admin"]
---
![Org Admin](/images/org-admin.png)
_{{< param description >}}_

In this section, you will create the Host project. This Google Cloud project will host the Config Controller instance later.

Define variables:
```Bash
WORK_DIR=~/
touch ${WORK_DIR}acm-workshop-variables.sh
chmod +x ${WORK_DIR}acm-workshop-variables.sh
RANDOM_SUFFIX=$(shuf -i 100-999 -n 1)
BILLING_ACCOUNT_ID=FIXME
ORG_OR_FOLDER_ID=FIXME
echo "export RANDOM_SUFFIX=${RANDOM_SUFFIX}" >> ${WORK_DIR}acm-workshop-variables.sh
echo "export HOST_PROJECT_ID=acm-workshop-${RANDOM_SUFFIX}" >> ${WORK_DIR}acm-workshop-variables.sh
echo "export BILLING_ACCOUNT_ID=${BILLING_ACCOUNT_ID}" >> ${WORK_DIR}acm-workshop-variables.sh
echo "export ORG_OR_FOLDER_ID=${ORG_OR_FOLDER_ID}" >> ${WORK_DIR}acm-workshop-variables.sh
source ${WORK_DIR}acm-workshop-variables.sh
```

## Create Host project

Create the Config Controller's GCP project either at the Folder level or the Organization level:
{{< tabs groupId="org-level">}}
{{% tab name="Folder level" %}}
Create this resource at a Folder level:
```Bash
gcloud projects create $HOST_PROJECT_ID \
    --folder $ORG_OR_FOLDER_ID \
    --name $HOST_PROJECT_ID
```
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="Org level" %}}
Alternatively, you could also create this resource at the Organization level:
```Bash
gcloud projects create $HOST_PROJECT_ID \
    --organization $ORG_OR_FOLDER_ID \
    --name $HOST_PROJECT_ID
```
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

Set the Billing account on this GCP project: 
```Bash
gcloud beta billing projects link $HOST_PROJECT_ID \
    --billing-account $BILLING_ACCOUNT_ID
```

Set this project as the default project for following `gcloud` commands:
```Bash
gcloud config set project $HOST_PROJECT_ID
```

## Check deployments

List the GCP resources created:
```Bash
gcloud projects describe $HOST_PROJECT_ID
```

Commit message:

more info about the acm-workshop-variables.sh file

content/host-project/create-host-project.md, after:

---
title: "Create Host project"
weight: 1
description: "Duration: 5 min | Persona: Org Admin"
tags: ["org-admin"]
---
![Org Admin](/images/org-admin.png)
_{{< param description >}}_

In this section, you will create the Host project. This Google Cloud project will host the Config Controller instance later.

Two Google Cloud Projects will be created during this workshop, we will assign them your Billing Account Id. Set your Billing Account Id for the rest of the workshop:
```Bash
BILLING_ACCOUNT_ID=FIXME
```

These two Google Cloud Projects will be created either at the Folder level (recommended) or at the Organization level. Set your Folder Id or Organization Id for the rest of the workshop:
```Bash
FOLDER_OR_ORG_ID=FIXME
```

Define the `acm-workshop-variables.sh` file which will contain all the reusable environment variables leveraged throughout this workshop.
```Bash
WORK_DIR=~/
touch ${WORK_DIR}acm-workshop-variables.sh
chmod +x ${WORK_DIR}acm-workshop-variables.sh
RANDOM_SUFFIX=$(shuf -i 100-999 -n 1)
echo "export RANDOM_SUFFIX=${RANDOM_SUFFIX}" >> ${WORK_DIR}acm-workshop-variables.sh
echo "export HOST_PROJECT_ID=acm-workshop-${RANDOM_SUFFIX}" >> ${WORK_DIR}acm-workshop-variables.sh
echo "export BILLING_ACCOUNT_ID=${BILLING_ACCOUNT_ID}" >> ${WORK_DIR}acm-workshop-variables.sh
echo "export FOLDER_OR_ORG_ID=${FOLDER_OR_ORG_ID}" >> ${WORK_DIR}acm-workshop-variables.sh
source ${WORK_DIR}acm-workshop-variables.sh
```
{{% notice info %}}
This `source ${WORK_DIR}acm-workshop-variables.sh` command will be particularly helful if you are running this workshop from within Cloud Shell. You could run it every time your session timed out to reinitialize yoru environment variables.
{{% /notice %}}

## Create Host project

Create the Config Controller's GCP project either at the Folder level or the Organization level:
{{< tabs groupId="org-level">}}
{{% tab name="Folder level" %}}
Create this resource at a Folder level:
```Bash
gcloud projects create $HOST_PROJECT_ID \
    --folder $FOLDER_OR_ORG_ID \
    --name $HOST_PROJECT_ID
```
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="Org level" %}}
Alternatively, you could also create this resource at the Organization level:
```Bash
gcloud projects create $HOST_PROJECT_ID \
    --organization $FOLDER_OR_ORG_ID \
    --name $HOST_PROJECT_ID
```
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

Set the Billing account on this GCP project: 
```Bash
gcloud beta billing projects link $HOST_PROJECT_ID \
    --billing-account $BILLING_ACCOUNT_ID
```

Set this project as the default project for following `gcloud` commands:
```Bash
gcloud config set project $HOST_PROJECT_ID
```

## Check deployments

List the GCP resources created:
```Bash
gcloud projects describe $HOST_PROJECT_ID
```
