content/_index.md, before:

---
title: "ACM/ASM Workshop"
chapter: true
weight: 1
---
# ACM/ASM Workshop

Welcome to the ACM/ASM Workshop!

This ACM/ASM Workshop allows to illustrate an advanced and a secure setup of a platform generated by Kubernetes resources, via GitOps.

This workshop leverages 3 main services:
- Google Kubernertes Engine (GKE)
- Anthos Config Management (ACM)
- Anthos Service Mesh (ASM)

It's a step-by-step guided hands-on lab.

After the workshop, you will be able to:
- Better understand the different services included in ACM: Config Sync, Config Controller, Policy Controller and Config Connector
- Secure a GKE cluster
- Get experience with GitOps flow to deploy Kubernetes manifests
- Deploy Infrastructure, Configs and Applications via Kubernetes manifests, via GitOps
- Define clear roles and responsabilities between Org Admin, Platform Admin and Apps Operator
- Set up a Managed ASM on GKE with a secure Ingress Gateway behind a HTTPS GCLB and Cloud Armor
- Deploy sample apps such as Whereami and Online Boutique with security best practices including `NetworkPolicies`, `Sidecars` and `AuthorizationPolicies`.

With this workshop, here is what you will accomplish, from scratch:

![Workshop Architecture diagram](/images/architecture.png)

_Recently tested by the author with GKE 1.24.3-gke.2100, ASM 1.14.4-asm.2 and ACM 1.13.0._

Commit message:

not an official Google's workshop disclaimer

content/_index.md, after:

---
title: "ACM/ASM Workshop"
chapter: true
weight: 1
---
# ACM/ASM Workshop

Welcome to the ACM/ASM Workshop!

{{% notice note %}}
It's not an official Google's workshop.
{{% /notice %}}

This ACM/ASM Workshop allows to illustrate an advanced and secure setup of a platform generated by Kubernetes resources, via GitOps.

This workshop leverages 3 main services:
- Google Kubernertes Engine (GKE)
- Anthos Config Management (ACM): Config Sync, Config Controller, Policy Controller and Config Connector
- Anthos Service Mesh (ASM)

It's a step-by-step guided hands-on lab.

After the workshop, you will be able to:
- Better understand the different services included in ACM: Config Sync, Config Controller, Policy Controller and Config Connector
- Secure a GKE cluster
- Get experience with GitOps flow to deploy Kubernetes manifests
- Deploy Infrastructure, Configs and Applications via Kubernetes manifests, via GitOps
- Define clear roles and responsabilities between Org Admin, Platform Admin and Apps Operator
- Set up a Managed ASM on GKE with a secure Ingress Gateway behind a HTTPS GCLB and Cloud Armor
- Deploy sample apps such as Whereami and Online Boutique with security best practices including `NetworkPolicies`, `Sidecars` and `AuthorizationPolicies`.

With this workshop, here is what you will accomplish, from scratch:

![Workshop Architecture diagram](/images/architecture.png)

Recently tested with:
- GKE 1.24.3-gke.2100
- ASM 1.14.4-asm.2
- ACM 1.13.0
- Whereami 1.2.12
- Online Boutique 0.4.0
