content/overview/credits.md, before:

---
title: "Credits"
weight: 5
---
Different contents have been leveraged in order to make and inpsire this workshop, here is the list of them:
- [Exposing service mesh applications through GKE Ingress](https://cloud.google.com/architecture/exposing-service-mesh-apps-through-gke-ingress) - Alex Mattson, Ameer Abbas and Mark Church
- [Whereami app](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/kubernetes-engine-samples/tree/main/whereami) - Alex Mattson
- [OnlineBoutique apps](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/microservices-demo) - Megan O'Keefe and Nim Jayawardena
- [Kubernetes Network Policies recipes](https://github.com/ahmetb/kubernetes-network-policy-recipes) - Ahmet Alp Balkan
- [Managing microservice architectures with Anthos Service Mesh](https://youtu.be/OeevDBEDAIA) - Ameer Abbas
- [Organizing Teams for GitOps and Cloud Native Deployments](https://youtu.be/Kl4-f1d_viY) - Sandeep Parikh
- [Build a platform with KRM](https://github.com/askmeegs/build-a-platform-with-krm) - Megan O'Keefe
- [Enforcing Service Mesh Structure using OPA Gatekeeper](https://youtu.be/90RHTBinAFU) - Sandeep Parikh
- [ACM @ Goldman Sachs](https://youtu.be/5ENId064XLo)
- Improve Security Posture in GKE Environment with ACM and ASM - Ameer Abbas
- Hybrid SME Academy Labs - Megan O'Keefe, Dan Sanche and Sandeep Parikh
- Anthos Multicloud Workshop - Kent Hua, Aaron Rueth and Ameer Abbas
- [Istio Sidecar resource to reduce memory overhead](https://youtu.be/JcfLUHdntN4) - Christian Posta

Thank you to their authors!

Commit message:

Add Bank of Anthos section

content/overview/credits.md, after:

---
title: "Credits"
weight: 5
---
Different contents have been leveraged in order to make and inpsire this workshop, here is the list of them:
- [Exposing service mesh applications through GKE Ingress](https://cloud.google.com/architecture/exposing-service-mesh-apps-through-gke-ingress) - Alex Mattson, Ameer Abbas and Mark Church
- [Whereami app](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/kubernetes-engine-samples/tree/main/whereami) - Alex Mattson
- [Online Boutique apps](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/microservices-demo) - Megan O'Keefe and Nim Jayawardena
- [Bank of Anthos apps](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/bank-of-anthos) - Megan O'Keefe and Olivier Bourgeois
- [Kubernetes Network Policies recipes](https://github.com/ahmetb/kubernetes-network-policy-recipes) - Ahmet Alp Balkan
- [Managing microservice architectures with Anthos Service Mesh](https://youtu.be/OeevDBEDAIA) - Ameer Abbas
- [Organizing Teams for GitOps and Cloud Native Deployments](https://youtu.be/Kl4-f1d_viY) - Sandeep Parikh
- [Build a platform with KRM](https://github.com/askmeegs/build-a-platform-with-krm) - Megan O'Keefe
- [Enforcing Service Mesh Structure using OPA Gatekeeper](https://youtu.be/90RHTBinAFU) - Sandeep Parikh
- [ACM @ Goldman Sachs](https://youtu.be/5ENId064XLo)
- Improve Security Posture in GKE Environment with ACM and ASM - Ameer Abbas
- Hybrid SME Academy Labs - Megan O'Keefe, Dan Sanche and Sandeep Parikh
- Anthos Multicloud Workshop - Kent Hua, Aaron Rueth and Ameer Abbas
- [Istio Sidecar resource to reduce memory overhead](https://youtu.be/JcfLUHdntN4) - Christian Posta

Thank you to their authors!
