app/content/onlineboutique/configure-config-sync.md, before:

---
title: "Configure Config Sync"
weight: 4
description: "Duration: 5 min | Persona: Platform Admin"
tags: ["asm", "gitops-tips", "platform-admin"]
---
![Platform Admin](/images/platform-admin.png)
_{{< param description >}}_

In this section, you will configure Config Sync to sync the resources in the Online Boutique `Namespace` via its associated `RoleBinding`.

Initialize variables:
```Bash
WORK_DIR=~/
source ${WORK_DIR}acm-workshop-variables.sh
```

```Bash
mkdir -p ${WORK_DIR}$GKE_CONFIGS_DIR_NAME/repo-syncs
mkdir ${WORK_DIR}$GKE_CONFIGS_DIR_NAME/repo-syncs/$ONLINEBOUTIQUE_NAMESPACE
```

## Define Namespace

Define a dedicated `Namespace` for the Online Boutique apps:
```Bash
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$GKE_CONFIGS_DIR_NAME/repo-syncs/$ONLINEBOUTIQUE_NAMESPACE/namespace.yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Namespace
metadata:
  labels:
    name: ${ONLINEBOUTIQUE_NAMESPACE}
    istio-injection: enabled
  name: ${ONLINEBOUTIQUE_NAMESPACE}
EOF
```

## Allo Config Sync to sync Istio resources

```Bash
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$GKE_CONFIGS_DIR_NAME/repo-syncs/$ONLINEBOUTIQUE_NAMESPACE/repo-sync-role-binding.yaml
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: RoleBinding
metadata:
  name: repo-sync
  namespace: ${ONLINEBOUTIQUE_NAMESPACE}
subjects:
- kind: ServiceAccount
  name: ns-reconciler-${ONLINEBOUTIQUE_NAMESPACE}
  namespace: config-management-system
roleRef:
  kind: ClusterRole
  name: edit
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
EOF
```
{{% notice tip %}}
We are using the [`edit` user-facing role](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/#user-facing-roles) here, to follow the least privilege principle. Earlier in this workshop during the ASM installation, we extended the default `edit` role with more capabilities regarding to the Istio resources: `VirtualServices`, `Sidecars` and `AuthorizationPolicies` which will be leveraged in the OnlineBoutique's namespace.
{{% /notice %}}

## Deploy Kubernetes manifests

```Bash
cd ${WORK_DIR}$GKE_CONFIGS_DIR_NAME/
git add . && git commit -m "Configure Config Sync for Online Boutique" && git push origin main
```

## Check deployments

List the Kubernetes resources managed by Config Sync in **GKE cluster** for the **GKE cluster configs** repository:
{{< tabs groupId="cs-status-ui">}}
{{% tab name="UI" %}}
Run this command and click on this link:
```Bash
echo -e "https://console.cloud.google.com/kubernetes/config_management/packages?project=${TENANT_PROJECT_ID}"
```
Wait until you see the `Sync status` column as `Synced` and the `Reconcile status` column as `Current`.
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="gcloud" %}}
Run this command:
```Bash
gcloud alpha anthos config sync repo describe \
    --project $TENANT_PROJECT_ID \
    --managed-resources all \
    --sync-name root-sync \
    --sync-namespace config-management-system
```
Wait and re-run this command above until you see `"status": "SYNCED"`.
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

List the GitHub runs for the **GKE cluster configs** repository:
```Bash
cd ${WORK_DIR}$GKE_CONFIGS_DIR_NAME && gh run list
```

Commit message:

Add Pod Security Admission (PSA)

app/content/onlineboutique/configure-config-sync.md, after:

---
title: "Configure Config Sync"
weight: 4
description: "Duration: 5 min | Persona: Platform Admin"
tags: ["asm", "gitops-tips", "platform-admin", "security-tips"]
---
![Platform Admin](/images/platform-admin.png)
_{{< param description >}}_

In this section, you will configure Config Sync to sync the resources in the Online Boutique `Namespace` via its associated `RoleBinding`.

Initialize variables:
```Bash
WORK_DIR=~/
source ${WORK_DIR}acm-workshop-variables.sh
```

```Bash
mkdir -p ${WORK_DIR}$GKE_CONFIGS_DIR_NAME/repo-syncs
mkdir ${WORK_DIR}$GKE_CONFIGS_DIR_NAME/repo-syncs/$ONLINEBOUTIQUE_NAMESPACE
```

## Define Namespace

Define a dedicated `Namespace` for the Online Boutique apps:
```Bash
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$GKE_CONFIGS_DIR_NAME/repo-syncs/$ONLINEBOUTIQUE_NAMESPACE/namespace.yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Namespace
metadata:
  labels:
    name: ${ONLINEBOUTIQUE_NAMESPACE}
    istio-injection: enabled
    pod-security.kubernetes.io/enforce: restricted
  name: ${ONLINEBOUTIQUE_NAMESPACE}
EOF
```
{{% notice note %}}
In addition to the `istio-injection` to include this `Namespace` into our Service Mesh, we are also adding the `pod-security.kubernetes.io/enforce` label as the `restricted` [Pod Security Standards policy](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/security/pod-security-standards/).
{{% /notice %}}

## Allo Config Sync to sync Istio resources

```Bash
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$GKE_CONFIGS_DIR_NAME/repo-syncs/$ONLINEBOUTIQUE_NAMESPACE/repo-sync-role-binding.yaml
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: RoleBinding
metadata:
  name: repo-sync
  namespace: ${ONLINEBOUTIQUE_NAMESPACE}
subjects:
- kind: ServiceAccount
  name: ns-reconciler-${ONLINEBOUTIQUE_NAMESPACE}
  namespace: config-management-system
roleRef:
  kind: ClusterRole
  name: edit
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
EOF
```
{{% notice tip %}}
We are using the [`edit` user-facing role](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/#user-facing-roles) here, to follow the least privilege principle. Earlier in this workshop during the ASM installation, we extended the default `edit` role with more capabilities regarding to the Istio resources: `VirtualServices`, `Sidecars` and `AuthorizationPolicies` which will be leveraged in the OnlineBoutique's namespace.
{{% /notice %}}

## Deploy Kubernetes manifests

```Bash
cd ${WORK_DIR}$GKE_CONFIGS_DIR_NAME/
git add . && git commit -m "Configure Config Sync for Online Boutique" && git push origin main
```

## Check deployments

List the Kubernetes resources managed by Config Sync in **GKE cluster** for the **GKE cluster configs** repository:
{{< tabs groupId="cs-status-ui">}}
{{% tab name="UI" %}}
Run this command and click on this link:
```Bash
echo -e "https://console.cloud.google.com/kubernetes/config_management/packages?project=${TENANT_PROJECT_ID}"
```
Wait until you see the `Sync status` column as `Synced` and the `Reconcile status` column as `Current`.
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="gcloud" %}}
Run this command:
```Bash
gcloud alpha anthos config sync repo describe \
    --project $TENANT_PROJECT_ID \
    --managed-resources all \
    --sync-name root-sync \
    --sync-namespace config-management-system
```
Wait and re-run this command above until you see `"status": "SYNCED"`.
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

List the GitHub runs for the **GKE cluster configs** repository:
```Bash
cd ${WORK_DIR}$GKE_CONFIGS_DIR_NAME && gh run list
```
