content/gke-project/create-gke-project.md, before:

---
title: "Create GKE project"
weight: 1
description: "Duration: 10 min | Persona: Org Admin"
---
_{{< param description >}}_

Define variables:
```Bash
source ~/acm-workshop-variables.sh
GKE_PROJECT_ID=acm-workshop-${RANDOM_SUFFIX}-gke
echo "export GKE_PROJECT_ID=${GKE_PROJECT_ID}" >> ~/acm-workshop-variables.sh
echo "export GKE_PROJECT_SA_EMAIL=${GKE_PROJECT_ID}@${CONFIG_CONTROLLER_PROJECT_ID}.iam.gserviceaccount.com" >> ~/acm-workshop-variables.sh
source ~/acm-workshop-variables.sh
```

Create a dedicated folder for this GKE project resources:
```Bash
mkdir ~/$WORKSHOP_ORG_DIR_NAME/config-sync/projects
mkdir ~/$WORKSHOP_ORG_DIR_NAME/config-sync/projects/$GKE_PROJECT_ID
```

## Define GCP project

Define the GCP project:
{{< tabs groupId="org-level">}}
{{% tab name="Org level" %}}
At the Organization level:
```Bash
cat <<EOF > ~/$WORKSHOP_ORG_DIR_NAME/config-sync/projects/$GKE_PROJECT_ID/project.yaml
apiVersion: resourcemanager.cnrm.cloud.google.com/v1beta1
kind: Project
metadata:
  annotations:
    cnrm.cloud.google.com/auto-create-network: "false"
  name: ${GKE_PROJECT_ID}
  namespace: config-control
spec:
  name: ${GKE_PROJECT_ID}
  billingAccountRef:
    external: "${BILLING_ACCOUNT_ID}"
  organizationRef:
    external: "${ORG_OR_FOLDER_ID}"
  resourceID: ${GKE_PROJECT_ID}
EOF
```
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="Folder level" %}}
At the Folder level:
```Bash
cat <<EOF > ~/$WORKSHOP_ORG_DIR_NAME/config-sync/projects/$GKE_PROJECT_ID/project.yaml
apiVersion: resourcemanager.cnrm.cloud.google.com/v1beta1
kind: Project
metadata:
  annotations:
    cnrm.cloud.google.com/auto-create-network: "false"
  name: ${GKE_PROJECT_ID}
  namespace: config-control
spec:
  name: ${GKE_PROJECT_ID}
  billingAccountRef:
    external: "${BILLING_ACCOUNT_ID}"
  folderRef:
    external: "${FOLDER_ID}"
  resourceID: ${GKE_PROJECT_ID}
EOF
```
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## Define GKE Project service account

```Bash
cat <<EOF > ~/$WORKSHOP_ORG_DIR_NAME/config-sync/projects/$GKE_PROJECT_ID/service-account.yaml
apiVersion: iam.cnrm.cloud.google.com/v1beta1
kind: IAMServiceAccount
metadata:
  name: ${GKE_PROJECT_ID}
  namespace: config-control
spec:
  displayName: ${GKE_PROJECT_ID}
EOF
```

```Bash
cat <<EOF > ~/$WORKSHOP_ORG_DIR_NAME/config-sync/projects/$GKE_PROJECT_ID/workload-identity-user.yaml
apiVersion: iam.cnrm.cloud.google.com/v1beta1
kind: IAMPartialPolicy
metadata:
  name: ${GKE_PROJECT_ID}-sa-wi-user
  namespace: config-control
spec:
  resourceRef:
    name: ${GKE_PROJECT_ID}
    apiVersion: iam.cnrm.cloud.google.com/v1beta1
    kind: IAMServiceAccount
  bindings:
    - role: roles/iam.workloadIdentityUser
      members:
        - member: serviceAccount:${CONFIG_CONTROLLER_PROJECT_ID}.svc.id.goog[cnrm-system/cnrm-controller-manager-${GKE_PROJECT_ID}]
EOF
```

## Define GKE project namespace and ConfigConnectorContext

```Bash
cat <<EOF > ~/$WORKSHOP_ORG_DIR_NAME/config-sync/projects/$GKE_PROJECT_ID/namespace.yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Namespace
metadata:
  annotations:
    cnrm.cloud.google.com/project-id: ${GKE_PROJECT_ID}
  labels:
    owner: ${GKE_PROJECT_ID}
  name: ${GKE_PROJECT_ID}
EOF
```

```Bash
cat <<EOF > ~/$WORKSHOP_ORG_DIR_NAME/config-sync/projects/$GKE_PROJECT_ID/config-connector-context.yaml
apiVersion: core.cnrm.cloud.google.com/v1beta1
kind: ConfigConnectorContext
metadata:
  name: configconnectorcontext.core.cnrm.cloud.google.com
  namespace: ${GKE_PROJECT_ID}
spec:
  googleServiceAccount: ${GKE_PROJECT_SA_EMAIL}
EOF
```

## Deploy Kubernetes manifests

```Bash
cd ~/$WORKSHOP_ORG_DIR_NAME/
git add .
git commit -m "Setting up GKE namespace/project"
git push origin main
```

## Check deployments

List the GCP resources created:
```Bash
gcloud projects describe $GKE_PROJECT_ID
gcloud iam service-accounts describe $GKE_PROJECT_SA_EMAIL \
    --project $CONFIG_CONTROLLER_PROJECT_ID
```

List the GitHub runs for the **Org configs** repository `cd ~/$WORKSHOP_ORG_DIR_NAME && gh run list`:
```Plaintext
STATUS  NAME                                      WORKFLOW  BRANCH  EVENT  ID          ELAPSED  AGE
✓       Setting up GKE namespace/project          ci        main    push   1960908849  1m12s    1m
✓       Billing API in Config Controller project  ci        main    push   1960889246  1m0s     8m
✓       Initial commit                            ci        main    push   1960885850  1m8s     9m
```

List the Kubernetes resources managed by Config Sync in **Config Controller** for the **Org configs** repository:
```Bash
gcloud alpha anthos config sync repo describe \
    --project $CONFIG_CONTROLLER_PROJECT_ID \
    --managed-resources all \
    --sync-name root-sync \
    --sync-namespace config-management-system
```
```Plaintext
getting 1 RepoSync and RootSync from krmapihost-configcontroller
┌───────────────────────────────────────┬────────────────────────┬─────────────────────────────────┬──────────────────────┐
│                 GROUP                 │          KIND          │               NAME              │      NAMESPACE       │
├───────────────────────────────────────┼────────────────────────┼─────────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────┤
│                                       │ Namespace              │ config-control                  │                      │
│                                       │ Namespace              │ acm-workshop-463-gke            │                      │
│ core.cnrm.cloud.google.com            │ ConfigConnectorContext │ configconnectorcontext          │ acm-workshop-463-gke │
│ iam.cnrm.cloud.google.com             │ IAMServiceAccount      │ acm-workshop-463-gke            │ config-control       │
│ iam.cnrm.cloud.google.com             │ IAMPartialPolicy       │ acm-workshop-463-gke-sa-wi-user │ config-control       │
│ resourcemanager.cnrm.cloud.google.com │ Project                │ acm-workshop-463-gke            │ config-control       │
│ serviceusage.cnrm.cloud.google.com    │ Service                │ cloudbilling.googleapis.com     │ config-control       │
└───────────────────────────────────────┴────────────────────────┴─────────────────────────────────┴──────────────────────┘
```

Commit message:

depends-on implementation with acm 1.11.0

content/gke-project/create-gke-project.md, after:

---
title: "Create GKE project"
weight: 1
description: "Duration: 10 min | Persona: Org Admin"
---
_{{< param description >}}_

Define variables:
```Bash
source ~/acm-workshop-variables.sh
GKE_PROJECT_ID=acm-workshop-${RANDOM_SUFFIX}-gke
echo "export GKE_PROJECT_ID=${GKE_PROJECT_ID}" >> ~/acm-workshop-variables.sh
echo "export GKE_PROJECT_SA_EMAIL=${GKE_PROJECT_ID}@${CONFIG_CONTROLLER_PROJECT_ID}.iam.gserviceaccount.com" >> ~/acm-workshop-variables.sh
source ~/acm-workshop-variables.sh
```

Create a dedicated folder for this GKE project resources:
```Bash
mkdir ~/$WORKSHOP_ORG_DIR_NAME/config-sync/projects
mkdir ~/$WORKSHOP_ORG_DIR_NAME/config-sync/projects/$GKE_PROJECT_ID
```

## Define GCP project

Define the GCP project:
{{< tabs groupId="org-level">}}
{{% tab name="Org level" %}}
At the Organization level:
```Bash
cat <<EOF > ~/$WORKSHOP_ORG_DIR_NAME/config-sync/projects/$GKE_PROJECT_ID/project.yaml
apiVersion: resourcemanager.cnrm.cloud.google.com/v1beta1
kind: Project
metadata:
  annotations:
    cnrm.cloud.google.com/auto-create-network: "false"
  name: ${GKE_PROJECT_ID}
  namespace: config-control
spec:
  name: ${GKE_PROJECT_ID}
  billingAccountRef:
    external: "${BILLING_ACCOUNT_ID}"
  organizationRef:
    external: "${ORG_OR_FOLDER_ID}"
  resourceID: ${GKE_PROJECT_ID}
EOF
```
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="Folder level" %}}
At the Folder level:
```Bash
cat <<EOF > ~/$WORKSHOP_ORG_DIR_NAME/config-sync/projects/$GKE_PROJECT_ID/project.yaml
apiVersion: resourcemanager.cnrm.cloud.google.com/v1beta1
kind: Project
metadata:
  annotations:
    cnrm.cloud.google.com/auto-create-network: "false"
  name: ${GKE_PROJECT_ID}
  namespace: config-control
spec:
  name: ${GKE_PROJECT_ID}
  billingAccountRef:
    external: "${BILLING_ACCOUNT_ID}"
  folderRef:
    external: "${FOLDER_ID}"
  resourceID: ${GKE_PROJECT_ID}
EOF
```
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## Define GKE Project service account

```Bash
cat <<EOF > ~/$WORKSHOP_ORG_DIR_NAME/config-sync/projects/$GKE_PROJECT_ID/service-account.yaml
apiVersion: iam.cnrm.cloud.google.com/v1beta1
kind: IAMServiceAccount
metadata:
  name: ${GKE_PROJECT_ID}
  namespace: config-control
spec:
  displayName: ${GKE_PROJECT_ID}
EOF
```

```Bash
cat <<EOF > ~/$WORKSHOP_ORG_DIR_NAME/config-sync/projects/$GKE_PROJECT_ID/workload-identity-user.yaml
apiVersion: iam.cnrm.cloud.google.com/v1beta1
kind: IAMPartialPolicy
metadata:
  name: ${GKE_PROJECT_ID}-sa-wi-user
  namespace: config-control
  annotations:
    config.kubernetes.io/depends-on: iam.cnrm.cloud.google.com/namespaces/config-control/IAMServiceAccount/${GKE_PROJECT_ID}
spec:
  resourceRef:
    name: ${GKE_PROJECT_ID}
    apiVersion: iam.cnrm.cloud.google.com/v1beta1
    kind: IAMServiceAccount
  bindings:
    - role: roles/iam.workloadIdentityUser
      members:
        - member: serviceAccount:${CONFIG_CONTROLLER_PROJECT_ID}.svc.id.goog[cnrm-system/cnrm-controller-manager-${GKE_PROJECT_ID}]
EOF
```
{{% notice tip %}}
You could see that we use the annotation `config.kubernetes.io/depends-on`, [since the version 1.11 of Config Management](https://cloud.google.com/anthos-config-management/docs/release-notes#March_24_2022) we could declare [resource dependencies between resource objects](https://cloud.google.com/anthos-config-management/docs/how-to/declare-resource-dependency). KCC already handles dependencies with a retry loop with backoff, which can make things with long reconcile time even longer and generate warnings or errors on these resources. With that annotation we are optimizing these behaviors. We will use this annotation as much as we can throughout this workshop.
{{% /notice %}}

## Define GKE project namespace and ConfigConnectorContext

```Bash
cat <<EOF > ~/$WORKSHOP_ORG_DIR_NAME/config-sync/projects/$GKE_PROJECT_ID/namespace.yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Namespace
metadata:
  annotations:
    cnrm.cloud.google.com/project-id: ${GKE_PROJECT_ID}
  labels:
    owner: ${GKE_PROJECT_ID}
  name: ${GKE_PROJECT_ID}
EOF
```

```Bash
cat <<EOF > ~/$WORKSHOP_ORG_DIR_NAME/config-sync/projects/$GKE_PROJECT_ID/config-connector-context.yaml
apiVersion: core.cnrm.cloud.google.com/v1beta1
kind: ConfigConnectorContext
metadata:
  name: configconnectorcontext.core.cnrm.cloud.google.com
  namespace: ${GKE_PROJECT_ID}
spec:
  googleServiceAccount: ${GKE_PROJECT_SA_EMAIL}
EOF
```

## Deploy Kubernetes manifests

```Bash
cd ~/$WORKSHOP_ORG_DIR_NAME/
git add .
git commit -m "Setting up GKE namespace/project"
git push origin main
```

## Check deployments

List the GCP resources created:
```Bash
gcloud projects describe $GKE_PROJECT_ID
gcloud iam service-accounts describe $GKE_PROJECT_SA_EMAIL \
    --project $CONFIG_CONTROLLER_PROJECT_ID
```

List the GitHub runs for the **Org configs** repository `cd ~/$WORKSHOP_ORG_DIR_NAME && gh run list`:
```Plaintext
STATUS  NAME                                      WORKFLOW  BRANCH  EVENT  ID          ELAPSED  AGE
✓       Setting up GKE namespace/project          ci        main    push   1960908849  1m12s    1m
✓       Billing API in Config Controller project  ci        main    push   1960889246  1m0s     8m
✓       Initial commit                            ci        main    push   1960885850  1m8s     9m
```

List the Kubernetes resources managed by Config Sync in **Config Controller** for the **Org configs** repository:
```Bash
gcloud alpha anthos config sync repo describe \
    --project $CONFIG_CONTROLLER_PROJECT_ID \
    --managed-resources all \
    --sync-name root-sync \
    --sync-namespace config-management-system
```
```Plaintext
getting 1 RepoSync and RootSync from krmapihost-configcontroller
┌───────────────────────────────────────┬────────────────────────┬─────────────────────────────────┬──────────────────────┐
│                 GROUP                 │          KIND          │               NAME              │      NAMESPACE       │
├───────────────────────────────────────┼────────────────────────┼─────────────────────────────────┼──────────────────────┤
│                                       │ Namespace              │ config-control                  │                      │
│                                       │ Namespace              │ acm-workshop-463-gke            │                      │
│ core.cnrm.cloud.google.com            │ ConfigConnectorContext │ configconnectorcontext          │ acm-workshop-463-gke │
│ iam.cnrm.cloud.google.com             │ IAMServiceAccount      │ acm-workshop-463-gke            │ config-control       │
│ iam.cnrm.cloud.google.com             │ IAMPartialPolicy       │ acm-workshop-463-gke-sa-wi-user │ config-control       │
│ resourcemanager.cnrm.cloud.google.com │ Project                │ acm-workshop-463-gke            │ config-control       │
│ serviceusage.cnrm.cloud.google.com    │ Service                │ cloudbilling.googleapis.com     │ config-control       │
└───────────────────────────────────────┴────────────────────────┴─────────────────────────────────┴──────────────────────┘
```
