content/monitoring-and-audit/scan-workloads-configurations.md, before:

---
title: "Scan workloads configurations"
weight: 6
description: "Duration: 5 min | Persona: Apps Operator"
tags: ["apps-operator", "monitoring", "security-tips"]
---
![Apps Operator](/images/apps-operator.png)
_{{< param description >}}_

In this section, you will monitor security scanning of your GKE workloads configurations in the Google Cloud console in order to leverage these two features:
- [Scan workloads for configuration issues](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/how-to/protect-workload-configuration)
- [Scan container images for known vulnerabilities](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/how-to/security-posture-vulnerability-scanning)

Initialize variables:
```Bash
WORK_DIR=~/
source ${WORK_DIR}acm-workshop-variables.sh
```

In the Google Cloud console, navigate to _Kubernetes Engine > Security Posture_, click on the link displayed by the command below:
```Bash
echo -e "https://console.cloud.google.com/kubernetes/security/dashboard?project=${TENANT_PROJECT_ID}"
```

On the default **Dashboard** tab, find the **GKE Posture settings** tile. And for both features **Workload configuration audit** and **Workload vulnerability audit**, click on one of the **Seclect clusters** button, select your GKE cluster and click on the **Turn on audit** button.

![Enable GKE Security Posture](/images/gke-security-posture-enablement.png)

Then you have to wait a little bit while these features are being enabled on your GKE cluster and eventually the audit will start:

> Audit in progress. It can take up to 15 minutes to complete.

Eventually, when the audit is done, you will be able to see the report of the vulnerabilities found. The **Workload configuration audit** will come first, **Workload vulnerability audit** will be generated later. 

![GKE Security Posture report](/images/gke-security-posture-report.png)

Commit message:

update images for asm version and gke security posture

content/monitoring-and-audit/scan-workloads-configurations.md, after:

---
title: "Scan workloads configurations"
weight: 6
description: "Duration: 5 min | Persona: Apps Operator"
tags: ["apps-operator", "monitoring", "security-tips"]
---
![Apps Operator](/images/apps-operator.png)
_{{< param description >}}_

In this section, you will monitor security scanning of your GKE workloads configurations in the Google Cloud console in order to leverage these two features:
- [Scan workloads for configuration issues](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/how-to/protect-workload-configuration)
- [Scan container images for known vulnerabilities](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/how-to/security-posture-vulnerability-scanning)

Initialize variables:
```Bash
WORK_DIR=~/
source ${WORK_DIR}acm-workshop-variables.sh
```

In the Google Cloud console, navigate to _Kubernetes Engine > Security Posture_, click on the link displayed by the command below:
```Bash
echo -e "https://console.cloud.google.com/kubernetes/security/dashboard?project=${TENANT_PROJECT_ID}"
```

On the default **Dashboard** tab, find the **GKE Posture settings** tile. And for both features **Workload configuration audit** and **Workload vulnerability audit**, click on one of the **Seclect clusters** button, select your GKE cluster and click on the **Turn on audit** button.

![Enable GKE Security Posture](/images/gke-security-posture-enablement.png)

Then you have to wait a little bit while these features are being enabled on your GKE cluster and eventually the audit will start:

> Audit in progress. It can take up to 15 minutes to complete.

When the audit is done, you will be able to see the report of the vulnerabilities found. The **Workload configuration audit** will come first, **Workload vulnerability audit** will be generated later. 

![GKE Security Posture report](/images/gke-security-posture-report.png)

You will also be able to see in details the associated concerns:

![GKE Security Posture concerns](/images/gke-security-posture-concerns.png)
