app/content/gke-cluster/enforce-gke-policies.md, before:

---
title: "Enforce GKE policies"
weight: 2
description: "Duration: 5 min | Persona: Org Admin"
tags: ["asm", "gke", "org-admin", "policies", "security-tips"]
---
![Org Admin](/images/org-admin.png)
_{{< param description >}}_

In this section, you will set up policies in order to enforce governance against the Kubernetes manifests defining your GKE cluster. This will guarantee that the best practices in term of security are respected.

Define variables:
```Bash
WORK_DIR=~/
source ${WORK_DIR}acm-workshop-variables.sh
```

## Enforce GKE clusters policies

Define the `ConstraintTemplate`:
```Bash
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$HOST_PROJECT_DIR_NAME/policies/templates/gkeclusterrequirement.yaml
apiVersion: templates.gatekeeper.sh/v1
kind: ConstraintTemplate
metadata:
  name: gkeclusterrequirement
  annotations:
    description: "Requirements for any GKE cluster."
spec:
  crd:
    spec:
      names:
        kind: GkeClusterRequirement
  targets:
    - target: admission.k8s.gatekeeper.sh
      rego: |-
        package gkeclusterrequirement
        violation[{"msg":msg}] {
          input.review.object.kind == "ContainerCluster"
          not input.review.object.spec.confidentialNodes.enabled == true
          msg := sprintf("GKE cluster %s should enable confidentialNodes.", [input.review.object.metadata.name])
        }
        violation[{"msg":msg}] {
          input.review.object.kind == "ContainerCluster"
          not input.review.object.spec.enableShieldedNodes == true
          msg := sprintf("GKE cluster %s should enable enableShieldedNodes.", [input.review.object.metadata.name])
        }
        violation[{"msg":msg}] {
          input.review.object.kind == "ContainerCluster"
          not input.review.object.spec.networkingMode == "VPC_NATIVE"
          msg := sprintf("GKE cluster %s should use VPC_NATIVE networkingMode.", [input.review.object.metadata.name])
        }
        violation[{"msg":msg}] {
          input.review.object.kind == "ContainerCluster"
          not input.review.object.spec.privateClusterConfig.enablePrivateNodes == true
          msg := sprintf("GKE cluster %s should enable enablePrivateNodes.", [input.review.object.metadata.name])
        }
        violation[{"msg":msg}] {
          input.review.object.kind == "ContainerCluster"
          not input.review.object.spec.workloadIdentityConfig.workloadPool
          msg := sprintf("GKE cluster %s should define workloadIdentityConfig.workloadPool.", [input.review.object.metadata.name])
        }
        violation[{"msg":msg}] {
          input.review.object.kind == "ContainerCluster"
          not input.review.object.spec.datapathProvider == "ADVANCED_DATAPATH"
          msg := sprintf("GKE cluster %s should define datapathProvider as ADVANCED_DATAPATH to use GKE Dataplane V2.", [input.review.object.metadata.name])
        }
        violation[{"msg":msg}] {
          input.review.object.kind == "ContainerCluster"
          not input.review.object.spec.addonsConfig.httpLoadBalancing.disabled == false
          msg := sprintf("GKE cluster %s should enable addonsConfig.httpLoadBalancing.", [input.review.object.metadata.name])
        }
        violation[{"msg":msg}] {
          input.review.object.kind == "ContainerNodePool"
          not input.review.object.spec.management.autoRepair == true
          msg := sprintf("GKE node pool %s should enable management.autoRepair.", [input.review.object.metadata.name])
        }
        violation[{"msg":msg}] {
          input.review.object.kind == "ContainerNodePool"
          not input.review.object.spec.management.autoUpgrade == true
          msg := sprintf("GKE node pool %s should enable management.autoUpgrade.", [input.review.object.metadata.name])
        }
        violation[{"msg":msg}] {
          input.review.object.kind == "ContainerNodePool"
          not input.review.object.spec.nodeConfig.imageType == "COS_CONTAINERD"
          msg := sprintf("GKE node pool %s should define nodeConfig.imageType as COS_CONTAINERD.", [input.review.object.metadata.name])
        }
        violation[{"msg":msg}] {
          input.review.object.kind == "ContainerNodePool"
          not input.review.object.spec.nodeConfig.shieldedInstanceConfig.enableIntegrityMonitoring == true
          msg := sprintf("GKE node pool %s should enable nodeConfig.shieldedInstanceConfig.enableIntegrityMonitoring.", [input.review.object.metadata.name])
        }
        violation[{"msg":msg}] {
          input.review.object.kind == "ContainerNodePool"
          not input.review.object.spec.nodeConfig.shieldedInstanceConfig.enableSecureBoot == true
          msg := sprintf("GKE node pool %s should enable nodeConfig.shieldedInstanceConfig.enableSecureBoot.", [input.review.object.metadata.name])
        }
        violation[{"msg":msg}] {
          input.review.object.kind == "ContainerNodePool"
          not input.review.object.spec.nodeConfig.serviceAccountRef.name
          msg := sprintf("GKE node pool %s should define nodeConfig.serviceAccountRef.", [input.review.object.metadata.name])
        }
EOF
```

Define the `gke-clusters-requirements` `Constraint` based on the `GkeClusterRequirement` `ConstraintTemplate` just created:
```Bash
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$HOST_PROJECT_DIR_NAME/policies/constraints/gke-clusters-requirements.yaml
apiVersion: constraints.gatekeeper.sh/v1beta1
kind: GkeClusterRequirement
metadata:
  name: gke-clusters-requirements
spec:
  enforcementAction: deny
  match:
    kinds:
      - apiGroups:
          - container.cnrm.cloud.google.com
        kinds:
          - ContainerCluster
          - ContainerNodePool
EOF
```

Define the `gke-clusters-require-asm-label` `Constraint` based on the `K8sRequiredLabels` `ConstraintTemplate` just created:
```Bash
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$HOST_PROJECT_DIR_NAME/policies/constraints/gke-clusters-require-asm-label.yaml
apiVersion: constraints.gatekeeper.sh/v1beta1
kind: K8sRequiredLabels
metadata:
  name: gke-clusters-require-asm-label
spec:
  enforcementAction: deny
  match:
    kinds:
      - apiGroups:
          - container.cnrm.cloud.google.com
        kinds:
          - ContainerCluster
  parameters:
    labels:
    - allowedRegex: proj-*
      key: mesh_id
EOF
```

## Deploy Kubernetes manifests

```Bash
cd ${WORK_DIR}$HOST_PROJECT_DIR_NAME/
git add . && git commit -m "Policies for GKE clusters" && git push origin main
```

## Check deployments

List the Kubernetes resources managed by Config Sync in **Config Controller** for the **Host project configs** repository:
```Bash
gcloud alpha anthos config sync repo describe \
    --project $HOST_PROJECT_ID \
    --managed-resources all \
    --sync-name root-sync \
    --sync-namespace config-management-system
```
Wait and re-run this command above until you see `"status": "SYNCED"`. All the `managed_resources` listed should have `STATUS: Current` as well.

List the GitHub runs for the **Host project configs** repository:
```Bash
cd ${WORK_DIR}$HOST_PROJECT_DIR_NAME && gh run list
```

Commit message:

Add remediation for all Constraints

app/content/gke-cluster/enforce-gke-policies.md, after:

---
title: "Enforce GKE policies"
weight: 2
description: "Duration: 5 min | Persona: Org Admin"
tags: ["asm", "gke", "org-admin", "policies", "security-tips"]
---
![Org Admin](/images/org-admin.png)
_{{< param description >}}_

In this section, you will set up policies in order to enforce governance against the Kubernetes manifests defining your GKE cluster. This will guarantee that the best practices in term of security are respected.

Define variables:
```Bash
WORK_DIR=~/
source ${WORK_DIR}acm-workshop-variables.sh
```

## Enforce GKE clusters policies

Define the `ConstraintTemplate`:
```Bash
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$HOST_PROJECT_DIR_NAME/policies/templates/gkeclusterrequirement.yaml
apiVersion: templates.gatekeeper.sh/v1
kind: ConstraintTemplate
metadata:
  name: gkeclusterrequirement
  annotations:
    description: "Requirements for any GKE cluster."
spec:
  crd:
    spec:
      names:
        kind: GkeClusterRequirement
  targets:
    - target: admission.k8s.gatekeeper.sh
      rego: |-
        package gkeclusterrequirement
        violation[{"msg":msg}] {
          input.review.object.kind == "ContainerCluster"
          not input.review.object.spec.confidentialNodes.enabled == true
          msg := sprintf("GKE cluster %s should enable confidentialNodes.", [input.review.object.metadata.name])
        }
        violation[{"msg":msg}] {
          input.review.object.kind == "ContainerCluster"
          not input.review.object.spec.enableShieldedNodes == true
          msg := sprintf("GKE cluster %s should enable enableShieldedNodes.", [input.review.object.metadata.name])
        }
        violation[{"msg":msg}] {
          input.review.object.kind == "ContainerCluster"
          not input.review.object.spec.networkingMode == "VPC_NATIVE"
          msg := sprintf("GKE cluster %s should use VPC_NATIVE networkingMode.", [input.review.object.metadata.name])
        }
        violation[{"msg":msg}] {
          input.review.object.kind == "ContainerCluster"
          not input.review.object.spec.privateClusterConfig.enablePrivateNodes == true
          msg := sprintf("GKE cluster %s should enable enablePrivateNodes.", [input.review.object.metadata.name])
        }
        violation[{"msg":msg}] {
          input.review.object.kind == "ContainerCluster"
          not input.review.object.spec.workloadIdentityConfig.workloadPool
          msg := sprintf("GKE cluster %s should define workloadIdentityConfig.workloadPool.", [input.review.object.metadata.name])
        }
        violation[{"msg":msg}] {
          input.review.object.kind == "ContainerCluster"
          not input.review.object.spec.datapathProvider == "ADVANCED_DATAPATH"
          msg := sprintf("GKE cluster %s should define datapathProvider as ADVANCED_DATAPATH to use GKE Dataplane V2.", [input.review.object.metadata.name])
        }
        violation[{"msg":msg}] {
          input.review.object.kind == "ContainerCluster"
          not input.review.object.spec.addonsConfig.httpLoadBalancing.disabled == false
          msg := sprintf("GKE cluster %s should enable addonsConfig.httpLoadBalancing.", [input.review.object.metadata.name])
        }
        violation[{"msg":msg}] {
          input.review.object.kind == "ContainerNodePool"
          not input.review.object.spec.management.autoRepair == true
          msg := sprintf("GKE node pool %s should enable management.autoRepair.", [input.review.object.metadata.name])
        }
        violation[{"msg":msg}] {
          input.review.object.kind == "ContainerNodePool"
          not input.review.object.spec.management.autoUpgrade == true
          msg := sprintf("GKE node pool %s should enable management.autoUpgrade.", [input.review.object.metadata.name])
        }
        violation[{"msg":msg}] {
          input.review.object.kind == "ContainerNodePool"
          not input.review.object.spec.nodeConfig.imageType == "COS_CONTAINERD"
          msg := sprintf("GKE node pool %s should define nodeConfig.imageType as COS_CONTAINERD.", [input.review.object.metadata.name])
        }
        violation[{"msg":msg}] {
          input.review.object.kind == "ContainerNodePool"
          not input.review.object.spec.nodeConfig.shieldedInstanceConfig.enableIntegrityMonitoring == true
          msg := sprintf("GKE node pool %s should enable nodeConfig.shieldedInstanceConfig.enableIntegrityMonitoring.", [input.review.object.metadata.name])
        }
        violation[{"msg":msg}] {
          input.review.object.kind == "ContainerNodePool"
          not input.review.object.spec.nodeConfig.shieldedInstanceConfig.enableSecureBoot == true
          msg := sprintf("GKE node pool %s should enable nodeConfig.shieldedInstanceConfig.enableSecureBoot.", [input.review.object.metadata.name])
        }
        violation[{"msg":msg}] {
          input.review.object.kind == "ContainerNodePool"
          not input.review.object.spec.nodeConfig.serviceAccountRef.name
          msg := sprintf("GKE node pool %s should define nodeConfig.serviceAccountRef.", [input.review.object.metadata.name])
        }
EOF
```

Define the `gke-clusters-requirements` `Constraint` based on the `GkeClusterRequirement` `ConstraintTemplate` just created:
```Bash
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$HOST_PROJECT_DIR_NAME/policies/constraints/gke-clusters-requirements.yaml
apiVersion: constraints.gatekeeper.sh/v1beta1
kind: GkeClusterRequirement
metadata:
  name: gke-clusters-requirements
  annotations:
    policycontroller.gke.io/constraintData: |
      "{
        description: 'Requires ContainerClusters and ContainerNodePools to use mandatory and security features.',
        remediation: 'Any ContainerClusters and ContainerNodePools should use mandatory and security features.'
      }"
spec:
  enforcementAction: deny
  match:
    kinds:
      - apiGroups:
          - container.cnrm.cloud.google.com
        kinds:
          - ContainerCluster
          - ContainerNodePool
EOF
```

Define the `gke-clusters-require-asm-label` `Constraint` based on the `K8sRequiredLabels` `ConstraintTemplate` just created:
```Bash
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$HOST_PROJECT_DIR_NAME/policies/constraints/gke-clusters-require-asm-label.yaml
apiVersion: constraints.gatekeeper.sh/v1beta1
kind: K8sRequiredLabels
metadata:
  name: gke-clusters-require-asm-label
  annotations:
    policycontroller.gke.io/constraintData: |
      "{
        description: 'Requires ContainerClusters to have the "mesh_id" label in order to leverage the ASM UI features.',
        remediation: 'Any ContainerClusters should have the "mesh_id" label with the value like "proj-*", where "*" is the Project Number.'
      }"
spec:
  enforcementAction: deny
  match:
    kinds:
      - apiGroups:
          - container.cnrm.cloud.google.com
        kinds:
          - ContainerCluster
  parameters:
    labels:
    - allowedRegex: proj-*
      key: mesh_id
EOF
```

## Deploy Kubernetes manifests

```Bash
cd ${WORK_DIR}$HOST_PROJECT_DIR_NAME/
git add . && git commit -m "Policies for GKE clusters" && git push origin main
```

## Check deployments

List the Kubernetes resources managed by Config Sync in **Config Controller** for the **Host project configs** repository:
```Bash
gcloud alpha anthos config sync repo describe \
    --project $HOST_PROJECT_ID \
    --managed-resources all \
    --sync-name root-sync \
    --sync-namespace config-management-system
```
Wait and re-run this command above until you see `"status": "SYNCED"`. All the `managed_resources` listed should have `STATUS: Current` as well.

List the GitHub runs for the **Host project configs** repository:
```Bash
cd ${WORK_DIR}$HOST_PROJECT_DIR_NAME && gh run list
```
