app/content/gke-cluster/enforce-network-policies-policies.md, before:

---
title: "Enforce NetworkPolicies policies"
weight: 6
description: "Duration: 5 min | Persona: Platform Admin"
tags: ["platform-admin", "policies", "security-tips"]
---
![Platform Admin](/images/platform-admin.png)
_{{< param description >}}_

In this section, you will enforce policies in order to make sure that your clusters has well defined `NetworkPolicies`.

Define variables:
```Bash
WORK_DIR=~/
source ${WORK_DIR}acm-workshop-variables.sh
```

## Enforce NetworkPolicies policies

### Require labels for Namespaces and Pods

As a best practice and in order to get the `NetworkPolicies` working in this workshop, we need to guarantee that any `Namespaces` have a label `name` and `Pods` have a label `app`.

Define the `namespaces-required-labels` `Constraint` based on the [`K8sRequiredLabels`](https://cloud.devsite.corp.google.com/anthos-config-management/docs/reference/constraint-template-library#k8srequiredlabels) `ConstraintTemplate` for `Namespaces`:
```Bash
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$GKE_CONFIGS_DIR_NAME/policies/constraints/namespaces-required-labels.yaml
apiVersion: constraints.gatekeeper.sh/v1beta1
kind: K8sRequiredLabels
metadata:
  name: namespaces-required-labels
spec:
  enforcementAction: deny
  match:
    kinds:
    - apiGroups:
      - ""
      kinds:
      - Namespace
    excludedNamespaces:
    - config-management-monitoring
    - config-management-system
    - default
    - gatekeeper-system
    - istio-system
    - kube-node-lease
    - kube-public
    - kube-system
    - resource-group-system
  parameters:
    labels:
    - key: name
EOF
```

Define the `pods-required-labels` `Constraint` based on the [`K8sRequiredLabels`](https://cloud.devsite.corp.google.com/anthos-config-management/docs/reference/constraint-template-library#k8srequiredlabels) `ConstraintTemplate` for `Pods`:
```Bash
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$GKE_CONFIGS_DIR_NAME/policies/constraints/pods-required-labels.yaml
apiVersion: constraints.gatekeeper.sh/v1beta1
kind: K8sRequiredLabels
metadata:
  name: pods-required-labels
spec:
  enforcementAction: deny
  match:
    kinds:
    - apiGroups:
      - ""
      kinds:
      - Pod
    excludedNamespaces:
    - config-management-monitoring
    - config-management-system
    - default
    - gatekeeper-system
    - kube-node-lease
    - kube-public
    - kube-system
    - resource-group-system
  parameters:
    labels:
    - key: app
EOF
```

### Require NetworkPolicies in Namespaces

Define the `namespaces-required-networkpolicies` `Constraint` based on the [`K8sRequireNamespaceNetworkPolicies`](https://cloud.devsite.corp.google.com/anthos-config-management/docs/reference/constraint-template-library#k8srequirenamespacenetworkpolicies) `ConstraintTemplate` for `Namespaces`. This `Constraint` requires that any `Namespaces` defined in the cluster has a `NetworkPolicy`:
```Bash
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$GKE_CONFIGS_DIR_NAME/policies/constraints/namespaces-required-networkpolicies.yaml
apiVersion: constraints.gatekeeper.sh/v1beta1
kind: K8sRequireNamespaceNetworkPolicies
metadata:
  name: namespaces-required-networkpolicies
spec:
  enforcementAction: dryrun
  match:
    kinds:
    - apiGroups:
      - ""
      kinds:
      - Namespace
    excludedNamespaces:
    - config-management-monitoring
    - config-management-system
    - default
    - gatekeeper-system
    - istio-system
    - kube-node-lease
    - kube-public
    - kube-system
    - resource-group-system
EOF
```

Because this is [constraint is referential](https://cloud.google.com/anthos-config-management/docs/how-to/creating-constraints#referential) (look at `NetworkPolicy` in `Namespace`), we need to define an associated `Config` in the `gatekeeper-system` `Namespace`:

Create the `gatekeeper-system` folder:
```Bash
mkdir ${WORK_DIR}$GKE_CONFIGS_DIR_NAME/gatekeeper-system
```

Define the `config-referential-constraints` `Config`:
```Bash
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$GKE_CONFIGS_DIR_NAME/gatekeeper-system/config-referential-constraints.yaml
apiVersion: config.gatekeeper.sh/v1alpha1
kind: Config
metadata:
  name: config
  namespace: gatekeeper-system
spec:
  sync:
    syncOnly:
      - group: ""
        version: "v1"
        kind: "Namespace"
      - group: "networking.k8s.io"
        version: "v1"
        kind: "NetworkPolicy"
EOF
```

## Deploy Kubernetes manifests

```Bash
cd ${WORK_DIR}$GKE_CONFIGS_DIR_NAME/
git add . && git commit -m "Policies for NetworkPolicies" && git push origin main
```

## Check deployments

List the Kubernetes resources managed by Config Sync in **GKE cluster** for the **GKE cluster configs** repository:
{{< tabs groupId="cs-status-ui">}}
{{% tab name="gcloud" %}}
```Bash
gcloud alpha anthos config sync repo describe \
    --project $TENANT_PROJECT_ID \
    --managed-resources all \
    --sync-name root-sync \
    --sync-namespace config-management-system
```
Wait and re-run this command above until you see `"status": "SYNCED"`.
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="UI" %}}
Alternatively, you could also see this from within the Cloud Console, by clicking on this link:
```Bash
echo -e "https://console.cloud.google.com/kubernetes/config_management/status?clusterName=${GKE_NAME}&id=${GKE_NAME}&project=${TENANT_PROJECT_ID}"
```
Wait until you see the `Sync status` column as `SYNCED`. And then you can also click on `View resources` to see the details.
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

List the GitHub runs for the **GKE cluster configs** repository:
```Bash
cd ${WORK_DIR}$GKE_CONFIGS_DIR_NAME && gh run list
```

Commit message:

Add remediation for all Constraints

app/content/gke-cluster/enforce-network-policies-policies.md, after:

---
title: "Enforce NetworkPolicies policies"
weight: 6
description: "Duration: 5 min | Persona: Platform Admin"
tags: ["platform-admin", "policies", "security-tips"]
---
![Platform Admin](/images/platform-admin.png)
_{{< param description >}}_

In this section, you will enforce policies in order to make sure that your clusters has well defined `NetworkPolicies`.

Define variables:
```Bash
WORK_DIR=~/
source ${WORK_DIR}acm-workshop-variables.sh
```

## Enforce NetworkPolicies policies

### Require labels for Namespaces and Pods

As a best practice and in order to get the `NetworkPolicies` working in this workshop, we need to guarantee that any `Namespaces` have a label `name` and `Pods` have a label `app`.

Define the `namespaces-required-labels` `Constraint` based on the [`K8sRequiredLabels`](https://cloud.google.com/anthos-config-management/docs/reference/constraint-template-library#k8srequiredlabels) `ConstraintTemplate` for `Namespaces`:
```Bash
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$GKE_CONFIGS_DIR_NAME/policies/constraints/namespaces-required-labels.yaml
apiVersion: constraints.gatekeeper.sh/v1beta1
kind: K8sRequiredLabels
metadata:
  name: namespaces-required-labels
  annotations:
    policycontroller.gke.io/constraintData: |
      "{
        description: 'Requires Namespaces to have the "name" label in order to leverage the namespaceSelector feature of NetworkPolicies.',
        remediation: 'Any Namespaces should have the "name" label.'
      }"
spec:
  enforcementAction: deny
  match:
    kinds:
    - apiGroups:
      - ""
      kinds:
      - Namespace
    excludedNamespaces:
    - config-management-monitoring
    - config-management-system
    - default
    - gatekeeper-system
    - istio-system
    - kube-node-lease
    - kube-public
    - kube-system
    - resource-group-system
  parameters:
    labels:
    - key: name
EOF
```

Define the `pods-required-labels` `Constraint` based on the [`K8sRequiredLabels`](https://cloud.google.com/anthos-config-management/docs/reference/constraint-template-library#k8srequiredlabels) `ConstraintTemplate` for `Pods`:
```Bash
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$GKE_CONFIGS_DIR_NAME/policies/constraints/pods-required-labels.yaml
apiVersion: constraints.gatekeeper.sh/v1beta1
kind: K8sRequiredLabels
metadata:
  name: pods-required-labels
  annotations:
    policycontroller.gke.io/constraintData: |
      "{
        description: 'Requires Pods to have the name "app" in order to leverage the podSelector feature of NetworkPolicies.',
        remediation: 'Any Pods should have the "app" label.'
      }"
spec:
  enforcementAction: deny
  match:
    kinds:
    - apiGroups:
      - ""
      kinds:
      - Pod
    excludedNamespaces:
    - config-management-monitoring
    - config-management-system
    - default
    - gatekeeper-system
    - kube-node-lease
    - kube-public
    - kube-system
    - resource-group-system
  parameters:
    labels:
    - key: app
EOF
```

### Require NetworkPolicies in Namespaces

Define the `namespaces-required-networkpolicies` `Constraint` based on the [`K8sRequireNamespaceNetworkPolicies`](https://cloud.google.com/anthos-config-management/docs/reference/constraint-template-library#k8srequirenamespacenetworkpolicies) `ConstraintTemplate` for `Namespaces`. This `Constraint` requires that any `Namespaces` defined in the cluster has a `NetworkPolicy`:
```Bash
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$GKE_CONFIGS_DIR_NAME/policies/constraints/namespaces-required-networkpolicies.yaml
apiVersion: constraints.gatekeeper.sh/v1beta1
kind: K8sRequireNamespaceNetworkPolicies
metadata:
  name: namespaces-required-networkpolicies
  annotations:
    policycontroller.gke.io/constraintData: |
      "{
        description: 'Requires that every namespace defined in the cluster has NetworkPolicies.',
        remediation: 'Any namespace should have NetworkPolicies. It's highly recommended to have at least a first default deny-all and then one fine granular NetworkPolicy per app.'
      }"
spec:
  enforcementAction: dryrun
  match:
    kinds:
    - apiGroups:
      - ""
      kinds:
      - Namespace
    excludedNamespaces:
    - config-management-monitoring
    - config-management-system
    - default
    - gatekeeper-system
    - istio-system
    - kube-node-lease
    - kube-public
    - kube-system
    - resource-group-system
EOF
```

Because this is [constraint is referential](https://cloud.google.com/anthos-config-management/docs/how-to/creating-constraints#referential) (look at `NetworkPolicy` in `Namespace`), we need to define an associated `Config` in the `gatekeeper-system` `Namespace`:

Create the `gatekeeper-system` folder:
```Bash
mkdir ${WORK_DIR}$GKE_CONFIGS_DIR_NAME/gatekeeper-system
```

Define the `config-referential-constraints` `Config`:
```Bash
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$GKE_CONFIGS_DIR_NAME/gatekeeper-system/config-referential-constraints.yaml
apiVersion: config.gatekeeper.sh/v1alpha1
kind: Config
metadata:
  name: config
  namespace: gatekeeper-system
spec:
  sync:
    syncOnly:
      - group: ""
        version: "v1"
        kind: "Namespace"
      - group: "networking.k8s.io"
        version: "v1"
        kind: "NetworkPolicy"
EOF
```

## Deploy Kubernetes manifests

```Bash
cd ${WORK_DIR}$GKE_CONFIGS_DIR_NAME/
git add . && git commit -m "Policies for NetworkPolicies" && git push origin main
```

## Check deployments

List the Kubernetes resources managed by Config Sync in **GKE cluster** for the **GKE cluster configs** repository:
{{< tabs groupId="cs-status-ui">}}
{{% tab name="gcloud" %}}
```Bash
gcloud alpha anthos config sync repo describe \
    --project $TENANT_PROJECT_ID \
    --managed-resources all \
    --sync-name root-sync \
    --sync-namespace config-management-system
```
Wait and re-run this command above until you see `"status": "SYNCED"`.
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="UI" %}}
Alternatively, you could also see this from within the Cloud Console, by clicking on this link:
```Bash
echo -e "https://console.cloud.google.com/kubernetes/config_management/status?clusterName=${GKE_NAME}&id=${GKE_NAME}&project=${TENANT_PROJECT_ID}"
```
Wait until you see the `Sync status` column as `SYNCED`. And then you can also click on `View resources` to see the details.
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

List the GitHub runs for the **GKE cluster configs** repository:
```Bash
cd ${WORK_DIR}$GKE_CONFIGS_DIR_NAME && gh run list
```
