content/networking/allow-networking.md, before:

---
title: "Allow Networking"
weight: 1
description: "Duration: 2 min | Persona: Org Admin"
tags: ["kcc", "org-admin"]
---
![Org Admin](/images/org-admin.png)
_{{< param description >}}_

Initialize variables:
```Bash
WORK_DIR=~/
source ${WORK_DIR}acm-workshop-variables.sh
```

## Define role

Define the `compute.networkAdmin` role with an [`IAMPolicyMember`](https://cloud.google.com/config-connector/docs/reference/resource-docs/iam/iampolicymember) for the Tenant project's service account:
```Bash
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$HOST_PROJECT_DIR_NAME/projects/$TENANT_PROJECT_ID/network-admin.yaml
apiVersion: iam.cnrm.cloud.google.com/v1beta1
kind: IAMPolicyMember
metadata:
  name: network-admin-${TENANT_PROJECT_ID}
  namespace: config-control
  annotations:
    config.kubernetes.io/depends-on: iam.cnrm.cloud.google.com/namespaces/config-control/IAMServiceAccount/${TENANT_PROJECT_ID},resourcemanager.cnrm.cloud.google.com/namespaces/config-control/Project/${TENANT_PROJECT_ID}
spec:
  memberFrom:
    serviceAccountRef:
      name: ${TENANT_PROJECT_ID}
  role: roles/compute.networkAdmin
  resourceRef:
    kind: Project
    external: projects/${TENANT_PROJECT_ID}
EOF
```

## Deploy Kubernetes manifests

```Bash
cd ${WORK_DIR}$HOST_PROJECT_DIR_NAME/
git add . && git commit -m "Allow Networking for Tenant project" && git push origin main
```

## Check deployments

{{< mermaid >}}
graph TD;
  IAMServiceAccount-->Project
  IAMPartialPolicy-->IAMServiceAccount
  ConfigConnectorContext-->IAMServiceAccount
  IAMPolicyMember-->IAMServiceAccount
  IAMPolicyMember-->Project
{{< /mermaid >}}

List the Kubernetes resources managed by Config Sync in **Config Controller** for the **Host project configs** repository:
```Bash
gcloud alpha anthos config sync repo describe \
    --project $HOST_PROJECT_ID \
    --managed-resources all \
    --sync-name root-sync \
    --sync-namespace config-management-system
```
Wait and re-run this command above until you see `"status": "SYNCED"` for this `RootSync`. All the `managed_resources` listed should have `STATUS: Current` as well.

List the GitHub runs for the **Host project configs** repository:
```Bash
cd ${WORK_DIR}$HOST_PROJECT_DIR_NAME && gh run list
```

List the Google Cloud resources created:
```Bash
gcloud projects get-iam-policy $TENANT_PROJECT_ID \
    --filter="bindings.members:${TENANT_PROJECT_SA_EMAIL}" \
    --flatten="bindings[].members" \
    --format="table(bindings.role)"
```

Commit message:

Enable Compute Engine API in Enable Networking in Tenant project

content/networking/allow-networking.md, after:

---
title: "Allow Networking"
weight: 1
description: "Duration: 2 min | Persona: Org Admin"
tags: ["kcc", "org-admin"]
---
![Org Admin](/images/org-admin.png)
_{{< param description >}}_

Initialize variables:
```Bash
WORK_DIR=~/
source ${WORK_DIR}acm-workshop-variables.sh
```

## Define role

Define the `compute.networkAdmin` role with an [`IAMPolicyMember`](https://cloud.google.com/config-connector/docs/reference/resource-docs/iam/iampolicymember) for the Tenant project's service account:
```Bash
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$HOST_PROJECT_DIR_NAME/projects/$TENANT_PROJECT_ID/network-admin.yaml
apiVersion: iam.cnrm.cloud.google.com/v1beta1
kind: IAMPolicyMember
metadata:
  name: network-admin-${TENANT_PROJECT_ID}
  namespace: config-control
  annotations:
    config.kubernetes.io/depends-on: iam.cnrm.cloud.google.com/namespaces/config-control/IAMServiceAccount/${TENANT_PROJECT_ID},resourcemanager.cnrm.cloud.google.com/namespaces/config-control/Project/${TENANT_PROJECT_ID}
spec:
  memberFrom:
    serviceAccountRef:
      name: ${TENANT_PROJECT_ID}
  role: roles/compute.networkAdmin
  resourceRef:
    kind: Project
    external: projects/${TENANT_PROJECT_ID}
EOF
```

## Define API

Define the Compute Engine API [`Service`](https://cloud.google.com/config-connector/docs/reference/resource-docs/serviceusage/service) resource for the Tenant project:
```Bash
cat <<EOF > ${WORK_DIR}$HOST_PROJECT_DIR_NAME/projects/$TENANT_PROJECT_ID/compute-service.yaml
apiVersion: serviceusage.cnrm.cloud.google.com/v1beta1
kind: Service
metadata:
  annotations:
    cnrm.cloud.google.com/deletion-policy: "abandon"
    cnrm.cloud.google.com/disable-dependent-services: "false"
    config.kubernetes.io/depends-on: resourcemanager.cnrm.cloud.google.com/namespaces/config-control/Project/${TENANT_PROJECT_ID}
  name: ${TENANT_PROJECT_ID}-compute
  namespace: config-control
spec:
  projectRef:
    name: ${TENANT_PROJECT_ID}
  resourceID: compute.googleapis.com
EOF
```
{{% notice info %}}
Throughout this workshop, we are enabling the Google Cloud services APIs from the **Org Admin**, it allows more control and governance over which Google Cloud services APIs the **Platform Admin** could use or not.
{{% /notice %}}

## Deploy Kubernetes manifests

```Bash
cd ${WORK_DIR}$HOST_PROJECT_DIR_NAME/
git add . && git commit -m "Allow Networking for Tenant project" && git push origin main
```

## Check deployments

{{< mermaid >}}
graph TD;
  IAMServiceAccount-->Project
  IAMPartialPolicy-->IAMServiceAccount
  ConfigConnectorContext-->IAMServiceAccount
  IAMPolicyMember-->IAMServiceAccount
  IAMPolicyMember-->Project
{{< /mermaid >}}

List the Kubernetes resources managed by Config Sync in **Config Controller** for the **Host project configs** repository:
```Bash
gcloud alpha anthos config sync repo describe \
    --project $HOST_PROJECT_ID \
    --managed-resources all \
    --sync-name root-sync \
    --sync-namespace config-management-system
```
Wait and re-run this command above until you see `"status": "SYNCED"` for this `RootSync`. All the `managed_resources` listed should have `STATUS: Current` as well.

List the GitHub runs for the **Host project configs** repository:
```Bash
cd ${WORK_DIR}$HOST_PROJECT_DIR_NAME && gh run list
```

List the Google Cloud resources created:
```Bash
gcloud projects get-iam-policy $TENANT_PROJECT_ID \
    --filter="bindings.members:${TENANT_PROJECT_SA_EMAIL}" \
    --flatten="bindings[].members" \
    --format="table(bindings.role)"
```
